ANNUAL REPORT 


2
1
0
4

Mission Statement 

The American Red Cross prevents and alleviates human 
suffering in the face of emergencies by mobilizing the 
power of volunteers and the generosity of donors. 

Principles of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Network 

Humanity • Impartiality • Neutrality • Independence • Voluntary service • Unity • Universality 

© 2014 The American National Red Cross 
The American Red Cross name and emblem are registered trademarks of the American Red Cross. 



A Message From the Chairman 



We are proud that the American Red Cross has stood the test of time, 

fulfilling its mission to prevent and alleviate human suffering in the face 
of emergencies for more than 130 years. As our mission continues, we are 
always innovating and looking ahead so we can be there for people in their 
time of greatest need. 

Each year, the American Red Cross responds to nearly 70,000 disasters, 
and this year that number included historic floods in Colorado, devastating 
tornadoes in the Midwest and wildfires and landslides that threatened 

thousands of homes in the West. Over time, we have seen the frequency 
and intensity of disasters increase, reinforcing the need for all of us to prepare our homes and families… 
bringing renewed focus on the three phases of a disaster cycle—preparedness, response and recovery. 

On the recovery front, we continue our work in Oklahoma for the people affected by the destructive 
tornado of May 2013, operating long-term recovery centers, helping residents invest in storm shelters 
and more. And we are still on the ground in New Jersey and New York, continuing to help meet the 
needs of those hit by Superstorm Sandy in October 2012. 

Our work also reaches across continents, as when Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines in November 
2013. The American Red Cross worked in partnership with the global Red Cross community to respond 
to the destruction that was wrought, providing food and cash assistance, as well as helping to reunite 
families separated by the storm. 

And since the devastating earthquake in Haiti nearly five years ago, we have been working with Haitians 
and our international partners to rebuild communities and improve the quality and availability of vital 
health services nationwide by making investments to prevent and treat diseases such as cholera, malaria 
and measles; supporting hospitals, mobile clinics and treatment centers; and funding the construction 
of several medical facilities that are able to care for thousands of people. 

Beyond our disaster work at home and abroad, this year the American Red Cross continued its work 
with members of the military by providing 350,000 emergency assistance services, taught 2.3 million 
people first aid, CPR and AED skills, vaccinated 211 million children around the world against measles, 
worked with 10,000 families searching for missing loved ones after wars and disasters, and provided 

7.7 million blood products, which is nearly 40 percent of our nation’s blood supply. 
Because of your support, the American Red Cross has been there and will continue to be there for the 
millions of people who need our help. Thank you for being a part of our enduring mission. 


Bonnie McElveen-Hunter 

Chairman 


A Message From the President and CEO 



In addition to being another incredibly busy 12 months, fiscal year 2014 
(July 1, 2013–June 30, 2014) marked a period of significant change for the 
American Red Cross. 

Throughout the past year, Red Crossers have continued their outstanding 
efforts in compassionately carrying out our humanitarian mission—responding 
to disasters large and small, collecting and distributing nearly 40 percent of our 
nation’s blood supply, teaching lifesaving health and safety skills to millions of 
Americans and supporting members of our Armed Forces and their families. 

But new medical practices and technologies have led to a reduction in demand for blood products, with 
shifting market conditions causing significant change across the entire blood banking sector. The Red Cross 
has responded by working in a thoughtful and thorough manner to right-size our operations and cut costs. 
We have improved the efficiencies of our blood collection, manufacturing and distribution operations while 
continuing to ensure a safe and reliable blood supply for the American public. 

To remain the best stewards of our donors’ dollars, we are also working to create new efficiencies in our 
chapter network that strengthen and increase our service delivery. This commitment has allowed the Red 
Cross to keep our costs low—on average, 91 cents of every dollar we spend goes to our lifesaving services— 
without negatively impacting our ability to respond whenever the country needs us. 

In fiscal year 2014, the Red Cross responded to a number of significant disasters and emergency events— 
including wildfires and rampant flooding throughout much of the West, devastating winter storms that 
caused thousands to lose power, the tragic mudslide in Washington, destructive tornadoes that ripped 
through much of the South, and more. We also continue to play an active role in the ongoing relief and 
recovery work in the Philippines in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan. 

As we look to the future, the Red Cross is committed to being a sustainable, vibrant and fiscally sound 
organization. We have stepped boldly into the 21st century with a series of highly successful, free mobile-
preparedness apps and a growing presence on social media—and we will continue to innovate across all our 
lines of service so that we are prepared to meet the needs of the American people, now and for generations 
to come. 

As always, everything we are able to do is because of the truly remarkable support of our donors, volunteers 
and partners. On behalf of those we serve, thank you for standing with the American Red Cross. 


Gail McGovern 
President and CEO 


The Power of Giving 


The fire broke out just before 2 a.m. at the Willow Lake 

Apartments in Lombard, Ill. 

It quickly spread through the 12 units on the north half of the 
building, collapsing the roof. The tenants were jolted awake by 
fire alarms and confronted with smoke and confusion. In the 
hallways, neighbors called to each other, “Get out!” 

Even as firefighters fought the blaze, Red Cross disaster relief 
teams of volunteers arrived and provided assistance to the 
tenants such as shelter, food and clothing. Children were given 
winter coats and shoes, and families were assured they would 
have a safe place to stay. 

This was just one of the tens of thousands of home fires 
the Red Cross responds to every year across the country. 

As with so much of the work of the Red Cross, it is only 
through the dedication of our trained volunteers and generous 
donors that we are able to do this work 24/7, 365 days a year. 

It is easy to feel uncertain of what to do in the face of crises 
at home and around the world, but the Red Cross provides an 
outlet for people to give back, take action and improve the 

world, starting down the street in their own hometown. 

Through the Red Cross, people can help prevent disaster by 
going door-to-door with fire safety information and new smoke 
alarms; save a life through a blood donation; provide comfort to 
a wounded service member in the hospital; enable children 
overseas to receive lifesaving measles and rubella vaccines; 
and help a friend, family member or co-worker during an 
emergency by learning first aid and CPR/AED. 

Instead of saying “What can I do?” the Red Cross makes it 
possible for people to say “There is so much I can do.” Join 
us today and help us illustrate the power of giving. 


For Towanda Price, Thursday started out as just 
another day at work at a local restaurant. But just 
minutes into her shift, she got a phone call that 
her South Side Chicago apartment was on fire. 

Towanda’s 16-year-old son Terrance was at home 
sleeping when the fire started in the apartment 
above them. He inhaled some smoke, but got 
out safely. 

Everything the family owned was completely 
soaked in water and ruined. Faced with an 
uninhabitable home, Towanda was grateful the 
Red Cross quickly arrived to provide assistance 
and encouragement. 

“I’m thankful the Red Cross could do something 
for us,” she said. “I’m not sure what we could have 
done without their help.” 

Every day, across the country, the American Red 

Cross responds to disasters large and small, most 

of them home fires. 


Response, Recovery and Preparation 


Although the work of the Red Cross may be most visible during our response to natural 
disasters, our mission stretches far beyond as we work to help communities recover and 
prepare for the future. 


Floods Inundate Colorado 

Historic floods in September 2013 swept away homes 

and entire neighborhoods in parts of Colorado, and the 

Red Cross provided safe shelter and meals for thousands 
of evacuees. We set up 10 emergency assistance centers 
and worked with our community partners to distribute relief 
items where help was needed most, as well as physical 
and emotional support to survivors. 

Over time, as recovery began, trained Red Cross volunteers 
worked with individuals and families who needed extra 

help getting back on their feet. These caseworkers have 

offered ongoing support, listening to needs and helping 
with expenses such as mold remediation. 

We have worked with our partners to help flood-

affected towns come back stronger and more resilient. 

For example, donated funds were used to purchase 
all-weather radios for rural, flood-affected communities 
that are prone to being cut off in emergencies. These 
radios will help remote communities receive alerts 
regarding weather, fire, floods and evacuation orders, 
providing timely and critical warnings. 

Tornadoes Strike in November 

An unusual mid-November outbreak of tornadoes hit 
the Midwest, including Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky and 
Michigan. In Illinois, multiple strong tornadoes devastated 
communities around the state. Thousands of homes and 
businesses were severely damaged or destroyed, roads 
were impassable and tens of thousands of people were 
left without power. 

The Red Cross opened shelters for people left homeless 

or displaced by the storms and provided meals and snacks, 
cleanup supplies and other relief items. Red Cross health 
and mental health volunteers were also there to offer 
physical and emotional support. 

Months after the disaster, the Red Cross continued to 
help Illinois families get back on their feet by addressing 
long-term recovery needs and preparing communities so 
they are more resilient when future disasters strike. 

Facing page: A Red Cross emergency response vehicle delivers fresh 
coffee and refreshments to searchers and emergency workers at the 
scene of the mudslide near Oso, Wash. Top: In a Red Cross shelter in 
Boulder, Colo., a mental health worker listens to a woman whose family 
had barely escaped the floods. Middle: Nearly a year after the tornado 
in Moore, Okla., Jamie Baker stands where her new house will be built. 
The American Red Cross first helped her with emergency supplies, and 
then connected her with a caseworker through the Oklahoma Disaster 
Recovery Project. Thanks to her caseworker, she was able to get her 
home rebuilt. Bottom: A storm shelter is built at a house in Norman, 
Okla., with grant funding from the Red Cross. 

55 

Top: Red Cross volunteers deliver meals and snacks to 
residents of Mayflower, Ark., after a tornado in May 2014. 

Middle: As part of its efforts to better prepare Oklahoma 

communities for future disasters, Red Cross volunteers 
provided one-on-one briefings and preparedness kits. 
Bottom: Steve Brown, whose home was destroyed by 
the Moore, Okla., tornado, sits by the storm shelter 

entrance in his new home. 

For example, in Brookport, Ill., Red Cross volunteers taught 
students how to create an emergency kit, and went door-todoor 
throughout the area, delivering weather radios and helping 
nearly 400 households create disaster preparedness plans. 

Washington Landslide 

A rain-soaked hillside collapsed on March 22, 2014, engulfing 
a rural neighborhood near Oso, Wash., in a tidal wave of mud 
and debris. The landslide took 43 lives and destroyed 49 
homes, leaving survivors to face tragic losses. Dozens of 
residents were reported missing in the mud, compounding the 
community’s grief in the weeks and months after the disaster. 

Red Cross volunteers were there immediately, providing meals, 
shelter and, just as importantly, counseling and comfort for 
those affected and first responders. 

As residents began to recover from the immediate aftermath, 

Red Cross caseworkers coordinated with local officials and 

affected residents to determine how to best meet their short-
and longer-term needs. 

We provided direct support to people who needed extra aid, 
including help with funeral expenses and mental health 
counseling. We also supported residents whose homes 
were damaged or destroyed with resources to help replace 
furniture and pay for security deposits, rent and utilities. 

The Red Cross continues to work with local partners to identify 
areas of need, which include additional financial support for 
affected residents moving into new housing arrangements, 
grants for mental health and counseling services, and resiliency 
and preparedness projects. 

Work Continues in Oklahoma 

In May 2014, a year after powerful tornadoes struck central 

Oklahoma, the Red Cross was still hard at work. In the months 

following the May 2013 tornadoes, the Red Cross and our 
partners were operating long-term recovery centers in El Reno, 

Shawnee and Moore. These centers offered a wide range of 

assistance, including support with housing, transportation and 

health and mental health services. 

As children returned to school in fall 2013, the Red Cross gave 

more than 400 Oklahoma teachers from the Moore, El Reno 

and Mid-Del districts grants ranging from $500 to $1,500 to 

replace classroom materials lost in the storms. 


We are also working with government and community 
partners to help prepare residents for future storms by 
helping homeowners rebuild and invest in storm shelters 

and providing preparedness kits and information to 

communities across the region. 

Recovering and Rebuilding 
After Superstorm Sandy 

One of the largest Red Cross operations over the 

past year has been in the ongoing recovery work for 
people and communities hard hit by Superstorm Sandy 

in October 2012, a storm the Northeast will never forget. 

The Red Cross Move-In Assistance Program provided 

families with financial assistance to cover costs such 
as rent, temporary housing and appliances. Through 
mid-September 2014, more than 5,100 households in 
New York, New Jersey and nearby states had received 
more than $32 million in Sandy move-in-assistance from 

the Red Cross. 

Recovery from such a massive storm takes time and the 
involvement of many organizations. The Red Cross has 
worked constantly with our government and community 
partners over the past two years to provide assistance to 
those who need it most and to train community members 
how to prepare for the next disaster. 

The Red Cross has awarded almost $92 million in funding 
to support critical recovery services in Sandy-affected 
communities in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic. Most of 
these grants are to organizations providing home repairs 
and rebuilding, mold remediation, financial assistance, 
food, and mental health counseling. Another key part of 
our work has been a multiyear commitment to support 
community roundtables that will help ensure that the 
needs of Sandy survivors are met in the future through 
direct financial assistance and coordination of construction 
supplies and volunteer labor. 

The Red Cross is also working to ensure that recovery 
includes being better prepared. Together with our partners, 
we are educating residents about how they can better 
protect their families, homes and possessions; supporting 
preparedness among local businesses; supporting 
community long-term recovery groups; and enhancing 

and refreshing response and coordination plans with 

partner organizations. 

Buildings, communities and lives that were built over 
decades were destroyed in just a few terrible hours by 
Sandy. The Red Cross has spent or made commitments 
to spend more than $310 million of the $311.5 million 
donated to support our work with Sandy-affected 
households and communities, as of August 31, 2014. 
We have worked together over the past two years to help 
people heal, rebuild and recover, and we will continue to 
be there until the last dollar is spent. 

Highlights From FY 2014 

(7/1/13–6/30/14) 


Responded to 63,600 disasters across the country. 

Provided 50,000 nights of shelter to people forced 
from their homes. 

Served more than 1.1 million meals and snacks. 

Distributed nearly 1.1 million relief items. 

Made 66,300 health and mental health contacts. 


Worldwide Action for Those in Need 


Working with the global Red Cross and Red Crescent network, the American Red Cross 
has helped meet the needs of the world’s most vulnerable communities for more than 
a century, and our work continued over the past year with disasters, disease prevention 

and conflicts. 

88 

Responding to Typhoon Haiyan 

Each year, millions of people around the world experience the 

devastating effects of disaster. In November 2013, one of the 

strongest tropical cyclones ever recorded, Typhoon Haiyan, 
swept through the Philippines, affecting millions of people 
and damaging or destroying more than 1 million homes. 

The American Red Cross immediately sent disaster response 
specialists, emergency relief supplies and financial assistance 

to the Philippines, working with the Philippine Red Cross to 

deliver much-needed aid. In addition, the American Red Cross 
provided family-tracing services to more than 800 families in 
the U.S. trying to locate missing loved ones in the Philippines. 

Since those initial days following Haiyan’s landfall, the 

American Red Cross has led the Red Cross effort that 

provided cash grants to 59,000 families and is working 
with partners on long-term recovery efforts, such as 
neighborhood reconstruction. More than 1 million 

Filipinos have received lifesaving Red Cross assistance 

since Haiyan struck. 

Eliminating Measles 

Measles is one of the most contagious and deadly 

diseases ever known, and the American Red Cross is a 

founding partner of the Measles & Rubella Initiative that is 
working to prevent measles deaths around the world. Since 

2001, more than 1.1 billion children have been vaccinated in 

more than 80 countries, and measles deaths have declined 
by 78 percent since the founding of the partnership. 

In addition to preventing deaths through measles vaccinations, 
the Initiative has handed out more than 41 million bed nets to 

prevent malaria and provided 207 million doses of the polio 

vaccine, ensuring children are protected against some of the 

most devastating childhood diseases. 

Although significant progress has been made thanks to 
the Measles & Rubella Initiative, efforts must be increased to 
sustain the gains achieved over the past 14 years and protect 
every child against these killer diseases. The American Red 

Cross welcomed the commitment in September 2013 from all 

World Health Organization regions to the cause of eliminating 
measles by 2020. 

Facing page: A Malawi Red Cross volunteer is surrounded by children 
recently vaccinated against measles and polio. Top: Red Cross volunteers 
carry relief supplies into Balud, a fishing village hard hit by Typhoon 
Haiyan. First, they had to help residents rebuild the bridge. Middle: Rose 
Evasi waits to have her son vaccinated against measles at the Mangochi 
Clinic in Malawi. Bottom: In Santa Elena, Ecuador, children in Red Cross 
preparedness brigades are trained in how to stay safe during a disaster. 

9 

Global Refugee Simulation 

Every year, millions of people around the world are displaced 
from their homes as a result of natural disaster and conflict. 

At the end of 2013, more than 51.2 million people were 

displaced, the highest number since World War II. 

In order to educate young people about the challenges 
faced by millions of refugees worldwide, in March 2014 
the American Red Cross hosted a refugee simulation for 
more than 500 students. 

Participants were grouped into “families” escaping a war 

Top: Participants in this refugee simulation had to escape a war 
zone and cross a patrolled border. Bottom: Philippine Red Cross 
psychosocial workers are still working with children traumatized 
by Typhoon Haiyan, teaching them to smile again. 


zone. The simulation took them through challenges including 
family separations and building or finding their own shelter 
once they reached refugee camps. 

The goal of the simulation was to give these youth volunteers 
a chance to experience what it feels like to be forced into a 
situation over which they have very little control. It also aimed 
to teach the students about the broader field of International 
Humanitarian Law, hopefully engaging and inspiring them to 

action. 

Using Mapping Technology 

for Relief Efforts 

In times of emergency, having accurate maps is vital to 

relief efforts. The American Red Cross Global Geographic 

Information Systems team provided remote mapping support 
over the past year to emergencies around the world, including 
Typhoon Haiyan, the crisis in Iraq, wildfires in Chile and the 
Ebola outbreak in West Africa. 

How OpenStreetMap Works 


Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 
Remote volunteers trace satellite Community volunteers add local detail Humanitarian organizations use mapped 
imagery into OpenStreetMap. such as neighborhoods, street names information to plan risk reduction and 
and evacuation centers. disaster response activities that save lives. 

10 

Technology is also opening up new doors for people to 
volunteer during relief operations. Through a partnership 
with the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team and 
crowdsourcing technology, virtual volunteers from around 
the globe are able to take satellite imagery and create 

maps for relief workers from the Red Cross and other 

partner agencies to use on the ground, speeding relief 
to those affected by devastating disasters. 

Last year, more than 2,700 volunteers assisted 
humanitarian efforts by making11 million edits 

to maps on the OpenStreetMap platform. 

Universal Apps 

The popularity of the Red Cross First Aid app in the 

U.S. since its launch in 2012 has now spurred efforts 
to ensure people around the world have access to the 
same technology. 
The Global Disaster Preparedness Center (GDPC), a 
resource center created by the American Red Cross and 

the global Red Cross network, developed a platform for 

the easy adaptation of the First Aid app. This technology 
allows each local Red Cross and Red Crescent society to 

create their own version of the app, providing lifesaving 

information on the most common first aid emergencies. 

As of June 2014, the apps have been released in more 
than 23 countries outside of the U.S. and downloaded 

more than 700,000 times. 


Additionally, the Red Cross has developed a multi-hazard 
app that is being released as a pilot program in Southeast 

Asia and the Caribbean. 

The Red Cross First Aid app, now available in many 
countries and languages, is shown here in Burmese. 

Highlights From FY 2014 

(7/1/13–6/30/14) 

5.5 million people received disaster assistance from 
the American Red Cross and our global Red Cross and 
Red Crescent network partners. 
Red Cross partners and communities in more than 
30 countries were better prepared for future disasters. 

211 million children were protected against measles. 

Nearly 10,000 families in the U.S. turned to the 

American Red Cross to find loved ones missing 
internationally following armed conflicts and disasters. 


Caring for Military Families 

More than 150 years after Clara Barton came to the aid of soldiers on Civil War battlefields, 

serving our nation’s troops, veterans and families remains a key part of the Red Cross mission. 
From connecting deployed service members to their families during emergencies to helping 
veterans reenter the civilian workforce, the Red Cross is there during every stage of military life. 


Preparing Military Families 
Around the World 

September is National Preparedness Month, and in 2013, 

the American Red Cross took our preparedness mission 
to military bases in Germany and Japan. 

In Okinawa, Japan, most Americans on military bases are 
forced to shelter in place during a tropical storm at least 
once a year. To help people become better prepared, the 

Red Cross hosted an event that invited people to race to 

assemble a disaster kit with items such as food, water 
and emergency blankets. 

In Germany, the Red Cross held several events for the 
military communities at Hohenfels and Grafenwoehr, 
including a “Lifesavers Event” to teach preparedness 
skills to youth and a mass First Aid/CPR/AED class 
to certify about 150 participants in these skills. 

Serving the Wounded 

Members of the military community deserve the 
best available care. Red Cross services in military 
and veterans hospitals supplement traditional hospital 
care with material assistance and morale and therapy 
programs to lift spirits and encourage healing. 

The Red Cross, in partnership with the U.S. Department 
of Defense and other partners, provides comfort items 
such as toiletries, games, snacks and phone cards to 
wounded, ill and injured military members. Last year, 
more than 136,000 of these items were distributed at 

hospitals and medical facilities. 

In partnership with the Wounded Warrior Project, the 
Red Cross also handed out nearly 2,000 Transitional 
Care Packs to injured or ill service members in military 

hospitals. These packages contain health and comfort 

items to make the hospital experience a little more 

comfortable. 


Facing page, top right, and middle: Red Cross programs support 
service members when they return home, as well as before they 
deploy. Bottom: Chris Winchell, shown here with his parents, is a 
former Army officer with a background in logistics and a specialty 
in transportation who has been working as a disaster fleet 
administrator at the Red Cross since May 2014. The Red Cross 
exceeded its goal of hiring 1,000 veterans over a two-year period. 


The Red Cross also provides other forms of therapy for 
patients. Programs differ by location, patient interest and 
locally available resources. For example, in some locations, 
amputee patients may take part in SCUBA lessons in a 

local pool. 

The partnership between the Red Cross and the 

Wounded Warrior Project has made a difference in the 
lives of thousands of wounded military members, their 

families and hospital staff members. In addition to the 
aforementioned programs, the Red Cross also helps 

host special events for injured military members, family 
members and military hospital staff. In fiscal year 2014, 
we held more than 300 events—including field trips and 

special meals and parties—for more than13,000 people at 

military hospitals as part of our partnership with the 
Wounded Warrior Project. 

Hiring Our Country’s Heroes 

Although trained by the military to overcome challenges, 
it sometimes isn’t easy for veterans to enter the civilian 
workforce. It often takes extra time and determination to 
find a job due to the current economic environment while 

competing with candidates who have been in the 
workforce longer. 


In July 2012, the American Red Cross committed to 
hiring 1,000 veterans over the following two years; by 
June 2014, we had exceeded our goal by hiring 1,013 
veterans across the organization. 

The Red Cross worked in partnership with the U.S. 

Chamber of Commerce and the “Hiring Our Heroes” 

program, a nationwide effort to assist veterans, 

transitioning military personnel and their spouses 
find employment. Veterans are now working in nearly 
every part of the Red Cross, including local chapters, 

blood services and disaster relief. 

The Red Cross is also doing its part to offer training 

and development programs to veterans and their family 
members. In fiscal year 2014, we provided employment 

development programs to more than 2,000 veterans and 

family members, and distributed more than 8,000 locally 
developed resource guides that contain information on 
scholarships, housing, legal support and more. 

In addition, through an ongoing program around the 

U.S., the Red Cross trained more than 300 dental and 

medical assistants on military installations and in civilian 
communities. 

Highlights From FY 2014 

(7/1/13–6/30/14) 

Provided more than 350,000 emergency assistance 
services to military members and their families. 

Distributed more than 136,000 comfort and therapy 
items at hospitals and medical facilities for military 
members, veterans and their families. 

Hosted more than 300 special events for more than 
13,000 participants at military hospitals as part of our 
partnership with the Wounded Warrior Project. 


Providing Blood as We Adapt to Change 


The American Red Cross is the nation’s single largest supplier of blood and blood products, and 

every day, we provide thousands of units of blood and platelets to patients across the U.S, helping 

save lives and enabling those with chronic conditions to enjoy life to the fullest. 

Photo: Brandon Robinson shows off his bandage after donating blood in Salt Lake City, Utah. 

15 


Responding to Decreased Demand 

In recent years, overall demand for blood products 

has dropped as medical treatments advance and fewer 

transfusions are necessary. The Red Cross strongly 
supports blood management, which minimizes the need 
for transfusions by optimizing patient care before, during 
and after surgery. In fact, we have ongoing agreements 
with a number of hospitals to jointly promote blood 
management practices. Avoiding unnecessary 
transfusions ensures better management of a 
national blood supply, keeping blood products on 
the shelves for when they are needed most. 

At the same time, the Red Cross must adapt to this 
decline in demand. Our response to these changing 
conditions affecting the blood banking industry has 
been to ensure that our resources are focused on 
the right areas. For example, last year, one of our key 

accomplishments was to implement a new regional 

structure for our blood services operations, which we 
believe will better align our organization with our 
objectives. 

Focusing on Recruitment and Collections 

While the demand for blood has decreased, it’s important 

to know that the need for donors and donations remains 

a critical part of the lifesaving process. Many people are 
not eligible to give blood due to travel, medication or a 
health condition. Of the approximately 38 percent of the 
population who are eligible, only a fraction of those 
actually donate. 

The Red Cross must collect approximately 15,000 units 
of blood each day to meet the needs of accident victims, 

cancer patients, children with blood disorders and others. 

U.S. blood needs can only be met by voluntary donations, 
and the Red Cross is committed to providing patients, 
hospitals and blood donors with the high level of service 

they expect and deserve. 


Top: After police officer Richard Donohue was wounded in a gun battle with 
suspects following the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings, he required more than 
45 blood products. Middle: Bloodmobiles make it convenient to give blood close 
to home or at work. Bottom: Blood donors like Lisa Marie Langarica help save 
lives every day. 


To support this, our teams across the country have 
renewed their focus on recruiting donors and blood drive 
sponsors, planning and scheduling, and collecting blood 

and platelets. 

Partnering With More Hospitals 

The Red Cross has been making changes to provide the 

best value in blood and blood products to hospitals, and is 
pleased that increasing numbers of hospitals are choosing 

to partner with the Red Cross. 

Technological advances at the Red Cross, in addition 

to cost reductions, are now allowing us to provide 
improved value and service. Although we still face 
challenges, we are making steady progress; in the last 
year, we have successfully gained both new hospital 
contracts and won back old customers, helping to offset 

market decline. 

100 Days of Summer. 100 Days of Hope. 

Because many people are on vacation and schools are 
out of session, the Red Cross typically sees a drop in 
blood donations between Memorial Day and Labor Day 
that is the equivalent of two fewer donors at every blood 
drive throughout the summer. To combat this trend, in 
May 2014 the Red Cross launched a campaign called 
“100 Days of Summer. 100 Days of Hope.” to urge eligible 
donors to give blood and platelets, reminding everyone 
that summer is a time when they can give hope to those 
who are suffering by donating blood. 

Highlights From FY 2014 

(7/1/13–6/30/14) 

Donors were encouraged to participate in the campaign 
by making and keeping appointments to give and by 
asking family and friends to join them in their effort to 
help save lives. They could also use the #chooseyourday 
hashtag on Twitter throughout the summer to read and 

share inspiring stories of hope. 

The “100 Days of Summer.100 Days of Hope.” campaign 
began Memorial Day weekend and continued through 

September 1. 

Summer is the season we’ve all 
been waiting for. It’s100 days 
of high dives, ball games and 
barbecues. It’s100 ways to dress 
a burger, catch some shade or 
get out of town. It’s100 chances 
to clear the calendar for what’s 
most important. 
Every two seconds this summer, 
someone like you will need blood. 
Donating is quick and easy and, 
like all good things this time of 
year, it’s worth celebrating. 
What are your summer plans? 
This summer, there are100 
chances to give hope. Choose 
your day to help save three lives. 
Donate blood. 
Choose your day to give hope. 
redcrossblood.orgdays of summer. 
days of hope.100
3.1 million people donated approximately 5.3 million 
units of blood. 
These donations were processed into more than 

7.7 million blood products to meet the needs of 
patients at around 2,600 hospitals and transfusion 
centers across the country. 
The Red Cross must collect about 15,000 units 
of blood each day to keep up with demand. 

1717 

Creating a Safe and Prepared Nation 


For more than 100 years, the Red Cross has taught people the skills they need to prepare 
and respond to emergencies. 

Photo: In Brevard County, Fla., children show off their Learn-to-Swim completion cards. The swim lessons were part of the 

18 
1818 

Red Cross Centennial Campaign. 


Learning Lifesaving Skills, 
in Person and Online 

Learning lifesaving skills couldn’t be easier these days. 

From traditional classroom settings to online learning and 

mobile apps, this critical knowledge is easily accessible 
and always at our fingertips. 

Last year, 3.7 million people attended a health and safety 
class. Volunteer instructors were vital to this effort, as they 
taught more than 31 percent of Red Cross community 

classes. 

We continue to develop new mobile apps to help people 

prepare for and respond to emergencies, as well as make 

it easier for people to help others. Joining a collection of 
award-winning apps first launched in 2012, in the past 
year the Red Cross introduced four new ones: Pet First 

Aid, Flood, Swim and Team Red Cross. 

In addition, to make the apps even more accessible to 

people who speak Spanish, last year we introduced a 
feature in our major disaster preparedness and First 
Aid apps that lets users toggle easily between English 
and Spanish on their app. People behave differently 
when under stress—such as in a first aid or weather 
emergency—and it’s during these times that they want 
to get important information in the language they are 

most comfortable with. The Spanish toggle on the apps 
makes this possible, giving people the lifesaving 

information they need quickly. 

As of June 2014, the Red Cross apps had been 

downloaded 5 million times, a notable achievement 

in the pursuit of making lifesaving information widely 

available. 

A Campaign to Cut the Drowning Rate 

The Red Cross Lifesaving and Water Safety program 
celebrated its 100th birthday in 2014. To mark this 
significant milestone, the Red Cross in May launched 
the "Centennial Campaign," a five-year effort to cut the 
drowning rate in half in 50 selected communities across 

the nation that have higher-than-average drowning deaths 

or where the drowning rate exceeds the national average. 

The gap between the swimming skills Americans say 
they have and the reality was made clear in a survey 
conducted for the Red Cross. It found that while 80 
percent of Americans said they could swim, only 56 

percent of the self-described swimmers can perform 

all of the five basic skills that could save their life in 

the water. 

The ultimate goal is to teach 50,000 people to learn 
to swim who would not otherwise have the opportunity. 

The Centennial Campaign also seeks to raise awareness 

about the five basic skills of water competency so that 
swimmers across the country know what it takes to be 

water smart. 

19of Americans say 
they can swim. 
But... 
only 56% of the self-described swimmers 
can perform all of the 5 basic skills that 
could save their life in the water. 
80% 
Can you swim well enough to save your life? 
5 Basic Skills 
Source: Survey findings based on an online survey of 1,024 adults conducted for the Red Cross on April 17-20, 2014 
1. Step or jump into the water over your head. 
2. Return to the surface and float or tread water 
for one minute. 
3. Turn around in a full circle and find an exit. 
4. Swim 25 yards to the exit without stopping. 
5. Exit from the water. If in a pool, be able to exit 
without using the ladder. 
19 

Essential Skills for Child-Care Providers 

For parents, having a well-trained sitter is a priceless 

thing. In fact, a Red Cross survey found that more than 
80 percent of parents said they would pay more for a 
teenage sitter who is certified by the Red Cross as a 
trained babysitter. 

Building on the success of the Red Cross Babysitting 
Basics course, in May 2014 we introduced a new, 
interactive Advanced Child-Care Training course that 
blends online and classroom instruction. The course is 
aimed at those 16 years and older who are, or plan to 
become, nannies or babysitters or who are caring for 

children in a residential setting. 

Along with training and certification in Pediatric 
First Aid, CPR and AED, course participants learn the 
most common child-care routines and behavior, as well 
as safety inside and outside of the home. 

Teaching the Next Generation 

of Professional Caregivers 

The Red Cross has been preparing people to work in the 

nursing field for more than a century and is the premier 
provider of Nurse Assistant Training (NAT), which provides 
training for entry-level health care careers. Over the past 
two years, 2,500 students across the U.S. were able to 
enter the NAT program thanks to a $3.5 million grant 
from the Walmart Foundation. 


Red Cross NAT instructors teach students the skills 
needed to become certified nursing assistants (CNAs), 
so they can work in long-term care facilities such as 
nursing homes and assisted living facilities, hospitals, 
and in-home health care. Through lectures, DVDs, role-
playing and laboratory practice, students learn procedural 
skills such as vital signs, bathing, dressing and positioning. 
The classroom is equipped with hospital beds and medical 
equipment to practice skills prior to the clinical rotation. 

The NAT program also emphasizes excellent 
communications skills and the art of caregiving to 

provide compassionate care for people in the health 

care system. 

Ninety-one percent of the Walmart Foundation grant 
recipients last year graduated from the NAT program; 
of those graduates, 93 percent have earned state 
certification, and 73 percent are now employed in 
the field. 

Highlights From FY 2014 

(7/1/13–6/30/14) 

5.6 million people learned lifesaving skills or 
downloaded a preparedness app from the Red Cross. 
1.1 million people attended a Red Cross disaster 
preparedness presentation. 
74 million weather alerts were sent through 
Red Cross mobile apps. 


We’re All in This Together 


As dawn broke the morning after a tornado outbreak 

ripped across Illinois, residents woke with the challenge 

all survivors of devastating storms face: Where to turn 
for help? 

The Red Cross immediately teamed up with other 
nonprofit groups and government agencies to respond, 
ensuring that people got the support they needed as they 
began to pick up the pieces. 

This teamwork captures how we work at the Red Cross 
and with our many partners, as well as the way we work 
with the public to make sure we fulfill our mission to 
prevent and alleviate human suffering in the face of 

emergencies. 

Volunteers make up 90 percent of the Red Cross 
workforce, and last year these volunteers gave more than 
6 million hours of their time. Every day, they are making a 
difference across every part of the Red Cross and in 
communities large and small across the country. 

In addition to our many volunteers, millions more have 

downloaded a mobile app and learned how to respond 

to first aid emergencies, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes 
and more, and this knowledge has been used to save 

lives and avert disaster. 

Millions of people gave blood through the Red Cross 
last year, helping to save lives and improve the lives of 
those with chronic diseases. The public also took the time 
during the holiday season to send more than 2.1 million 
messages of thanks to our troops, veterans and their 
families through “Holiday Mail for Heroes.” And people 
gave generously to support the Red Cross mission during 
the holiday season and when disasters struck at home 

and abroad. 

In times of emergencies, people in communities big 

and small depend on the Red Cross, and the Red Cross 

depends on the help and support of people across our 
nation. Together, we must rise to meet every challenge 

and show the world what we can do when we’re all in 
it together. 

2121 

T
TThe Chairman’
he Chairman’he Chairman’s Council 
s Councils Council


Thank you to our generous Chairman’s Council members. Each member has made 
an outstanding investment in the American Red Cross. The contributions of these 
individuals and families have helped the Red Cross provide life-changing and 
lifesaving services—down the street, across the country and around the world. 

22 

Photo: Donor names are etched in granite in The Chairman’s Council Plaza at Red Cross national headquarters in Washington, D.C. 


Chairman’s Council Members* 

Donors with giving of $1 million or more 

Trace Adkins 

The Ahmanson Foundation 
Anonymous 
Anonymous 
The Anschutz Foundation 
The Arcadia Foundation 
Lucille & Don R. Armacost 
The Bullock Family 
Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz 

Nicolas Cage 
Margaret A. Cargill 

Judith M. & Russell L. Carson 

J. Harwood & Louise B. Cochrane 
Colcom Foundation 
James M. Cox Foundation 
Jenny Craig 
Dalio Foundation 
The Dart Foundation 
Michael & Susan Dell 
John R. Denzler & Sons 
The Paul Desmond Estate 
Swanee & Paul J. DiMare 
George S. & Dolores Doré 
Eccles Foundation 
Kathleen A. Ernst 
Charitable Foundation 

Pamela A. Farr 

The Lee & Juliet Folger Fund 
Sam J. Frankino Foundation 

Mr. & Mrs. Robert W. Galvin 
Lady Gaga & the Germanottas 
The Granger Foundation 
Dorrance Hill Hamilton 
Mr. & Mrs. Leon “Pete” Harman 
The Harriman Family 
Randy Harris & Joey Proffitt Harris 

Colleen G. Hempleman 

The Albert M. Higley Family 
Conrad N. Hilton Foundation 
Mason & Mary Holland Family 
Bill & Jill Howard 
Jon & Karen Huntsman 
The Jordan Family 
Ann F. Kaplan 
Michele & Howard Kessler 
Lavin Family Foundation 
Jeannik Méquet Littlefield 
Richard E. & Nancy Peery Marriott 
Rex & Alice A. Martin 
The Mazzone Family 
Alvin & Wanda McCall 
Susan & Craig McCaw 
Bowen H. “Buzz” & Barbara McCoy 
Chairman Bonnie McElveen-Hunter 
Janice & Robert C. McNair 
The Meadows Foundation 
Robert W. Merrick 

Loren E. Parks 

The Robin & Richard Patton Family 
The Peierls Foundation 

T. Boone Pickens 
The Rapaport Family 
Bruce & Diana Rauner 
Emily Frances & John Raymond 
Julia Roberts 
Lily Safra 
Rowena Yarak Schaber 

H. Marshall & Rae Paige Schwarz 
Thomas D. Scott 
The Semnani Family Foundation 
Deborah G. Seymour 
Jean D. Shehan 
Ellen G. Shelton & Family 
Denise R. Sobel 
The Steinbrenner Family 
Perry & Ruby Stevens 
Janet & John Swanson 
J.T. Tai Foundation 
Velma Wallace 
Anita Zucker & Family 
The Zverina Family 
*As of June 30, 2014 


Corporate Supporters 



The contributions of these companies and foundations help the American Red Cross prepare 
before, respond during and recover after a disaster strikes. Each of these organizations make 
annual donations to Red Cross disaster relief efforts, which enable us to provide shelter, food, 
emotional support and other assistance to those in need, when it is needed most. 


Photo: In Loveland, Colo., Red Cross health services worker Pam Robinson checks on a little girl who was stung by bees. 

24 

The shelter was opened when floods threatened this area of Colorado. 


Annual Disaster Giving Program Members—$1,000,000+ Annually* 
Caterpillar Inc. Lowe’s Companies, Inc. UPS 
FedEx Corporation Merck & Co., Inc. VSPSM Vision care for life 
GE Foundation Nationwide Insurance Foundation Walmart 
Humble Bundle State Farm WellPoint Foundation 

Annual Disaster Giving Program Members—$500,000+ Annually* 

3M 

Altria Group 
American Express 
Anheuser-Busch Foundation 

Aon 

Bank of America 
BNY Mellon 
CHS Foundation 
Cisco Foundation 
Citi Foundation 
Community Safety Foundation, 

funded by CSAA Insurance Group, 
a AAA Insurer 
ConAgra Foods Foundation 
Costco Wholesale Corporation 

CSX 

Darden Restaurants Foundation 

Dell Inc. 
Discover 
Disney 
Dr Pepper Snapple Group 
eBay Inc. 

Edison International 
Grainger 

H-E-B 
Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation 
The Home Depot 
John Deere Foundation 
Johnson Controls 
Kimberly-Clark Corporation 
Kraft Foods Group Foundation 
Mazda North American Operations 

Medtronic 

Meijer 

Mondel¯ez International Foundation 

National Grid 

Northrop Grumman Corporation 
PepsiCo Foundation 
The Pew Charitable Trusts 
Samsung 
Southwest Airlines 

Sprint 
Target 

TD Ameritrade 
The TJX Companies, Inc. 


United Airlines 
United Technologies Corporation 

University of Phoenix 
US Airways 
Wawa 
Wells Fargo 

Disaster Responder Members—$250,000+ Annually* 

Alcoa 
ArcelorMittal 
AstraZeneca 

AT&T 
AXA Foundation 
Ball Corporation 
Carlson Rezidor Hotels 
The Clorox Company 
Delta Air Lines 
Farmers Insurance 
Ford Motor Company 
General Motors Foundation 
H&M 

H&R Block 
Ingersoll Rand Foundation 

Land O’Lakes, Inc. 

Marsh & McLennan Companies 
MetLife Foundation 
Morgan Stanley 
New Balance Foundation 
Northwestern Mutual and the 

Northwestern Mutual Foundation 
Procter & Gamble Company 
PuroClean 
Residence Inn by Marriott 
Ryder Charitable Foundation 

Starbucks Coffee Company 
and Starbucks Foundation 


Starwood Hotels & Resorts 
Worldwide Foundation, Inc. 


State Street 

Sunoco 

Swiss Re 

Texas Instruments 

T O Y O T A 

UBS Americas 

U.S. Bank 
Western Union Foundation 
*As of June 30, 2014 


Sources of Financial Support – Fiscal Year 2014 


Fiscal Year 2014 
American Red Cross operating funds come from three main funding 

Net Assets (in billions): $1.961 
sources: contributions, revenues from products and services, and 
investment income and other sources. Total Red Cross operating 

Operating 
Revenues 
and Gains 
(in millions) 
Total $2,989.1
revenues and gains for fiscal year 2014 were $2,989.1 million. 

Red Cross total expenses were $3,062.2 million. Net assets were 
$1,961 million. 

Products & Services 
$2,019.2 67.6% 

Contributions 
723.1 24.2% 

Investment Income & Other 
246.8 8.3% 

Contributions 
(in millions) 
Total $723.1 
Operating 
Expenses 
(in millions) 
Total $3,062.2 
Contributions for Domestic 
& International Relief, General Operations, 
and Endowment $596.4 82.5% 
United Way and Combined 
Federated Campaign 103.7 14.3% 
Donated Materials and Services 23.0 3.2% 

Biomedical Services $1,979.9 64.7% 
Domestic Disaster Services 364.1 11.9% 
Health and Safety Services 196.1 6.4% 
Fundraising 183.2 6.0% 
Management and General 115.9 3.8% 
International Relief and Development Services 127.4 4.2% 
Community Services (other local programs) 49.5 1.6% 
Service to the Armed Forces 46.1 1.5% 

NOTE: The complete audited consolidated financial statements of the American Red Cross for fiscal 2014 may be obtained online at redcross.org/pubs 
or by contacting the American Red Cross Inquiry Center, 43118th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20006, (202) 303-4498. 


American Red Cross Leadership 


Board of Governors 

(as of October 31, 2014) 

Honorary Chairman 

Barack H. Obama 

President of the United States 

Chairman 

Bonnie McElveen-Hunter 

CEO 
Pace Communications, Inc. 
Greensboro, North Carolina 

Vice Chairmen 

Laurence E. Paul, M.D. 
Melanie R. Sabelhaus 

Emeritus Officials 

George M. Elsey 

President Emeritus 

Board of Governors Members 

Bonnie McElveen-Hunter 

CEO 
Pace Communications, Inc. 
Greensboro, North Carolina 

Ajay Banga 

President and CEO 
MasterCard 
Purchase, New York 

Afsaneh M. Beschloss 

President and CEO 
The Rock Creek Group 
Washington, D.C. 

Richard K. Davis 

Chairman, President and CEO 

U.S. Bancorp 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Allan I. Goldberg, M.D. 

Leader, U.S. Advocacy and 
Professional Affairs 

U.S. Medical Affairs 
Merck & Co., Inc. 
North Wales, Pennsylvania 
James W. Keyes 

Chief Executive Officer 

Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Markets 
El Segundo, California 

Joseph E. Madison 

Broadcaster 
Sirius XM Radio, Inc. 
Washington, D.C. 


Gail J. McGovern 

President and CEO 
American Red Cross 
Washington, D.C. 

Suzanne Nora Johnson 

Former Vice Chairman 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
Santa Monica, California 

Richard C. Patton 

Founder and Chief Manager 
Courage Capital Management, LLC 
Nashville, Tennessee 

Laurence E. Paul, M.D. 

Managing Principal 
Laurel Crown Partners LLC 
Los Angeles, California 

Emilio Romano 

Chairman and CEO 
Bank of America – Mexico 
Mexico City, Mexico 

Melanie R. Sabelhaus 

Entrepreneur and Philanthropist 
Naples, Florida 

Tina M. Schiel 

Executive Vice President—Chief Stores Officer 

Target Corporation 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 

H. Marshall Schwarz 
Retired Chairman and CEO 

U.S. Trust Corporation 
New York, New York 
David A. Thomas, Ph.D. 

Dean and William R. Berkley Chair 
Georgetown University 
McDonough School of Business 
Washington, D.C. 

Carol Tomé 

Chief Financial Officer and Executive 

Vice President – Corporate Services 
The Home Depot 
Atlanta, Georgia 

Steven H. Wunning 

Group President 
Caterpillar, Inc. 
Peoria, Illinois 

Corporate Officers 

(as of October 31, 2014) 

Bonnie McElveen-Hunter 

Chairman 

Gail J. McGovern 

President and CEO 

Dale P. Bateman 

Chief Audit Executive 

David Meltzer 

General Counsel and 

Chief International Officer 

Brian J. Rhoa 

Chief Financial Officer 

Jennifer L. Hawkins 

Corporate Secretary 

Executive Leadership 

John Crary 

Chief Information Officer 

Suzanne C. DeFrancis 

Chief Public Affairs Officer 

Peggy Dyer 

Chief Marketing Officer 

Shaun P. Gilmore 

President, Biomedical Services 

Cliff Holtz 

President, Humanitarian Services 

Melissa B. Hurst 

Chief Human Resources Officer 

Kevin Jessar 

Corporate Ombudsman 

Neal Litvack 

Chief Development Officer 

Jack McMaster 

President, Preparedness and 
Health and Safety Services 

Floyd Pitts 

Chief Diversity Officer 


Learn More About the American Red Cross 


To learn more, or to find out how to donate time, money or blood, visit redcross.org. 
Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. 



facebook.com/redcross @redcross 

This report was produced by the national headquarters of the American Red Cross. 

Roger Lowe Sharyn Lange 

Senior Vice President Designer, Marketing 
Communications 

Terence Feheley 
Brian McArthur Editor, Marketing 
Vice President 
Communications Operations Jeanette Ortiz-Osorio 

Photography Manager, Communications 

Carol Robinson 

Michele Lumet 

Director, Creative Resources 

Print Production Coordinator, Marketing 

Leslie A. Betts 

Writer 

Photography Credits 

All photos are property of the American Red Cross unless otherwise noted. 

Cover (from upper left, clockwise): American Red Cross; Patrick Fuller/IFRC; Hector Emanuel; Amanda 
Romney. Inside cover (from left to right): American Red Cross; Talia Frenkel; Niki M. Clark. Page 1: ©Rhoda 
Baer. Page 2: Daniel Cima. Page 3: Bob McCaffrey. Page 4: Keith Acree. Page 5 (top to bottom): Hector 
Emanuel; Jason Colston; Jason Colston. Page 6 (top to bottom): Jason Colston; Jason Colston; Jason 
Colston. Page 7: Hector Emanuel. Page 8: Niki M. Clark. Page 9 (top to bottom): Winnie Romeril; Niki M. 
Clark; Brian Cruickshank. Page 10 (top to bottom): Danuta Otfinowski; Mark Munkel/Danish Red Cross. 
Page 11: Niki M. Clark. Page 12: Courtesy of DVIDS. Page 13 (top to botom): Courtesy of DVIDS; Mike 
Murdock; Courtesy of Chris Winchell. Page 14: Mike Murdock. Page 15: Amanda Romney. Page 16 (top to 
bottom): Courtesy of Cindy M. Loo/The Boston Red Sox; Jody Lane; Jody Lane. Page 17: American Red 
Cross. Page 18: Connie Harvey. Page 20: iStock.com. Page 21 (left to right): Jody Lane; Talia Frenkel. Page 

22: ImageLink. Page 24: Hector Emanuel. Page 28 (left to right): Jody Lane; Mike Murdock; Jason Colston; 
Patrick Fuller/IFRC; Shutterstock.com. 

redcross.org 

A501-14 


