A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A N
N
N
N
N
N
NE
E
E
EW
W
W A
AG
GE
E
E
E
E O
OF
ANNUAL REPORT 2012
"We are at an inflection point in mankind's
relationship with the world we inhabit.
National Geographic uniquely elevates
the dialogue around critical issues at
the intersection of humanity's boundless
and understandable desire to consume
and the Earth's limited capacity to give."
JOHN FAHEY
Chairman and CEO of the National Geographic Society
CONTENTS
Celebrating 125 Years 2
Explore 8
Educate 18
Engage 26
Awards and Special Recognition 32
Acknowledgment of Gifts 36
Financial Report 46
Sustainability 48
2 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 3
CELEBRATING 125 YEARS
Exploration for National Geographic's founders was driven not only
by a desire for knowledge but also by a thirst for adventure. Today's
explorers have the same goals, but are driven by a deeper purpose--
to navigate the increasingly complex relationship between humanity's
needs and the natural world that sustains us.
At National Geographic, we are celebrating 125 years of unprecedented
discovery and innovation. Much of the planet is changing, and the need
to find solutions to global challenges is urgent. We believe the 21st century
will be the greatest age of exploration yet--there are still discoveries
to be made and solutions to be found, and there are revolutionary new
technologies available to identify, understand, and document them.
4 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
"One of our biggest challenges moving
forward is making sure that we balance
the need to experiment and be bold with
the need to stay true to what is unique
about the Society. Everything we do
must exude the essence and mission of
National Geographic--there will be some
good and potentially very profitable
ideas that don't necessarily do that,
so we need to be mindful."
SEAN GERRITY
As co-founder of Catalyst Consulting, National Geographic
Fellow and American Prairie Reserve President Sean Gerrity
spent 20 far-reaching years working to help companies
with organizational alignment and strategy development.
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 5
In 2012, National Geographic kicked off an ambitious plan to enhance our
leadership in the exploration and research that contribute to great stories
and new discoveries. One of our goals is to launch a far-reaching philan-
thropic effort that will engage visionary individuals and organizations willing
to make transformational philanthropic commitments. These gifts will power
the future of exploration and guarantee our ability to continue sharing the
world and all that is in it. To expand and energize the global community
that embraces the notion that "to know the world is to change it," we are
seeking investment in three key areas:
EXPLORATION
More is known about our world today than ever before, yet we have barely scratched
the surface. Addressing global issues like climate change, cultural conflict, and species
loss requires better understanding, new technologies, and a passion for discovery.
For 125 years, National Geographic has been a connector, convener, and translator--
serving as a catalyst for greater awareness and knowledge and inspiring people
to work together.
EDUCATION
National Geographic has had great success in leveraging its rich media content
and relationships with present-day exploration heroes to create compelling and
inspiring resources that engage students and transform how they learn about their
world. Through National Geographic Education and its associated foundation, the
Society has created a 50-state, grassroots teacher-training network, national and
state standards for geography, and early support for establishing the Geography AP
exam. These foster a deeper understanding in today's youth and tomorrow's leaders
about our interconnected planet and the importance of geographic knowledge.
ENGAGEMENT
National Geographic reaches more than 450 million people every month. National
Geographic magazine is published in nearly 40 languages, and more than 50 percent
of National Geographic's readers come from outside the United States--a community
that is rapidly growing. Investments in the magazine, photography, and digital prop-
erties have ensured that members can stay connected and engage in a way that is
relevant and helps make sense of the world, the challenges that exist, and the impact
of individual as well as collective choices.
6 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
A NEW AGE OF EXPLORATION
National Geographic provides early-stage venture funding for exploration--
often when others are unwilling to take a chance on an unproven person
or idea. Through our grant-making activities, we continue to be the "early
investor" who often paves the way for additional funding from other sources.
Beginning in 1890, two years after our founding, National Geographic
created a fund that has since supported more than 10,000 research projects
and explorations, ranging from Hiram Bingham's Machu Picchu expedition
to Dian Fossey's study of mountain gorillas. Through philanthropic support,
National Geographic's Fund for Exploration supports the Society's key grant-
making programs, including the Committee for Research and Exploration,
Expeditions Council, NGS/Waitt Grants, Conservation Trust, Young Explorers
Grant Program, and Global Exploration Fund, as well as the Society's Explorer
programs, including Explorers-in-Residence, Fellows, and Emerging Explorers.
National Geographic made more than 400 grants in 2012, covering ground-
breaking conservation work, daring expeditions, photographic surveys,
and more.
nationalgeographic.org/explorers/projects
EXPLORE
BARRELING TOWARD EARTH AT 843 MILES AN HOUR
Enclosed in a special pressurized capsule attached to a helium balloon and soaring
upward at a rate of 1,200 feet per minute, Austrian BASE jumper Felix Baumgartner
first surpassed the altitude of Air Force Colonel Joe Kittinger's record for the highest
skydive, then he swept past the mark for the highest manned balloon ascent. At
127,852 feet, he stepped out onto a small platform the width of a skateboard. Then,
with the cold darkness of space above him and the sunlit Earth below, he jumped.
With that, on October 14, 2012, Baumgartner, National Geographic's future
Adventurer of the Year, completed a seven-year quest to break the record for highest
parachute jump. At a speed of 843.6 miles an hour, he became the first human
to break the sound barrier in free fall.
"The exit was perfect, and then I started spinning," Baumgartner said. "It was
really brutal at times. I thought for a few seconds that I would lose consciousness."
If the spin became too fast, it could be deadly, creating a centrifuge effect that would
pull blood from his body down to his feet--or, even worse, up to his head. With more
than 30 cameras filming for National Geographic and BBC, the world watched as he
began to spin, and eventually recovered. He landed safely in 9 minutes and 18 seconds,
with 4 minutes and 20 seconds of that spent in free fall. The exclusive jump angles
were combined with four years of behind-the-scenes footage to create an insider's
look at Baumgartner's journey, culminating in his historic jump.
channel.nationalgeographic.com/channel/space-dive/
Pilot Felix Baumgartner, , of Austria jumps out
from the capsule during the final manned flight
for Red Bull Stratos in Roswell, New Mexico, U.S.A.
on Oct. , . "The really big adventures--the
ones that break boundaries and create `firsts'--aren't
undertaken lightly," he said. "They demand a lot
of planning and preparation and risk assessment."
8 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
TAKING READERS TO MOUNT EVEREST
Last spring, National Geographic readers were able to follow the National Geographic-
The North Face expedition to Mount Everest in real time through live video, Instagram,
Twitter, and National Geographic magazine's iPad app. The climbing team set out
to repeat the historic National Geographic­sponsored American Mount Everest
Expedition of 1963.
Expeditions Council grantee and mountaineer Conrad Anker and photographer
Cory Richards attempted the West Ridge route without Sherpa support. However,
Richards was evacuated early for health reasons, and dangerous weather conditions
forced expedition leader Anker, who had previously summited Everest twice, to
accompany a second group with writer Mark Jenkins, scientists, and researchers
aimed for the mountain's more commonly climbed Southeastern Ridge. Using fixed
ropes, stocked camps, help from porters, and supplemental oxygen, the group
reached the summit on Friday, May 25, 2012. The story of their climb was featured
in National Geographic magazine in June 2013.
nationalgeographic.org/everest/overview
The Mount Everest expedition was sponsored by National Geographic and The North Face,
with support from Montana State University and the Mayo Clinic.
Above: Hundreds of climbers attempt Everest each year--sometimes dangerously harnessed to
a single ascender line. Opposite page: Footage collected during James Cameron's record dive will
be featured in deepsea challenge d--to be released in early .
THE ULTIMATE TEST OF A MAN AND HIS MACHINE
In a state-of-the-art "vertical torpedo," National Geographic Explorer-in-Residence
and Academy Award-winning director James Cameron made headlines in March 2012
with the first solo dive to the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the deepest point in the
ocean. Cameron spent the nearly seven-hour dive inside the cramped pilot sphere
of his submersible, which has a diameter not much wider than a bathtub--only 43
inches--with his knees bent, hardly able to move. But the discomfort paid off when
he touched down at Challenger Deep, a valley in the Mariana Trench that lies nearly
seven miles (11 km) below the ocean's surface.
Cameron is the first human to reach the deep undersea valley alone. The only
other people to make this descent did so in 1960--U.S. Navy Lieutenant Don Walsh,
who was on hand to greet Cameron when he surfaced, and the late Swiss ocean-
ographer Jacques Piccard. Cameron arrived at the bottom with the technology
necessary to capture scientific data, specimens, and visuals in a way unthinkable
in 1960. Preliminary data from Cameron's dive are giving scientists hints about
tsunamis, gigantic crustaceans, and the origins of life.
Deepseachallenge.org
DEEPSEA CHALLENGE is a joint scientific expedition by Cameron, National Geographic,
and Rolex to conduct deep-ocean research and exploration. Additional support is provided
by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.
10 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
EXPLORATION FUND EXPANDS GRANTMAKING IN ASIA
To help the next generation understand the world, gain perspective, and ultimately
help address global challenges, National Geographic has developed the Global Explo-
ration Fund. It will allow us to activate new populations of explorers by providing
resources through grants, content, and programs. The most recent effort in this global
grant-making expansion--the National Geographic Air and Water Conservation Fund,
based in China--awarded 13 grants in 2012 to resident scientists and conservationists
working in mainland China to solve China's air- and-water quality issues. The grants,
which range from $20,000 to $50,000, fund projects at the cutting edge of research,
technology, and conservation that require seed capital, including those that investigate
risky or unproven approaches. Among the first grants funded in 2012 were a program
to develop a sustainable water circulation and treatment system for urban areas and
an examination of the environmental effects of China's massive South-North Water
Transfer Project.
nationalgeographic.org/explorers/gef
Top: China is the second location for National Geographic's Global Exploration Fund, which
launched in Sweden in . Opposite page: The Pitcairn Islands Expedition included 
individual dives and more than  person-hours underwater, counting and measuring ,
fish, , sea urchins, , coral colonies, and , algae.
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 11
INFLUENCING UNPRECEDENTED PROTECTION OF MARINE LIFE
In 2012, National Geographic's Ocean Initiative provided support to Explorers-in-
Residence Enric Sala and Mike Fay, whose work has resulted in hundreds of square
miles of marine areas being protected from commercial use. In the spring, their team
headed to the Pitcairn Islands, where they spent more than 450 hours underwater
collecting data, observing healthy ecosystems with abundant fish populations, and
studying vibrant coral communities. Their fascinating research illuminated the global
biological value of these waters, and their photography revealed the beauty and
bounty of these unfamiliar worlds. Sala and Fay's findings helped convince the Pit-
cairn community in September to unanimously vote for the protection of their waters.
Together with partners Pitcairn Council and Pew Environment Group, National Geo-
graphic has proposed the creation of what would be the largest marine reserve in the
world, around the Pitcairn Islands. The U.K. government is now studying the proposal.
In the fall, Fay and Sala traveled to Gabon, where Fay's 2,000-mile walk in 1999-
2000 across the Congo Basin--enduring poachers, leeches, malaria, and blisters--led
that country's government to set aside 11 percent of Gabon's land as national parks,
preserved for generations to come. This time, in a collaboration with the Wildlife
Conservation Society's field office in Gabon, Fay and Sala uncovered pristine--and
unprotected--beaches and coastal lagoons along the coast of Gabon. Exploring aboard
the Waitt Institute's expedition vessel, the M/Y Plan B, the team's initial research
provided support for conservation efforts and other understudied ocean habitats.
nationalgeographic.org/ocean
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
MORE GRANTS
FEWER GRANTS
Climate
Animals
Grants awarded in 2012 are sorted into 12
categories and grouped geographically. Circle
size reflects the number of grants in a region.
Type size is scaled to the number of grants in
a category. The three largest categories in
each region are in black.
KEY
Coalitions and alliances
in wild capuchin monkeys
SUSAN E. PERRY
AGE 47
Archaeology of an Inca
political center in north-
western Argentina
LUIS A. MARTOS
AGE 50
Photographing construc-
tion of the world's largest
space telescope
DAVID P. YODER
AGE 48
The evolution of Greenland
ice sheet hydrology
KELLY M. DEUERLING
AGE 27
A thousand miles
across the Ice Age Trail
SALLY M. YOUNGER
AGE 24
North America
105 GRANTS
Central America
50 GRANTS
South America
57 GRANTS
Society&
Culture
Animals&
Habitat
Climate&
Environment
Climate&
Environment
Lost Civilizations
Animals&
Habitat
Climate&
Environment
Lost Civilizations
Animals&
Habitat
Innovation&
Technology
Lost Civilizations
Ancient Earth
Human Origins
Adventure&
Exploration
Space Exploration
Photography&
Documentary Film
Society&
Culture
Ancient Earth Adventure&
Exploration
Society&
Culture
Ancient Earth
Adventure&
Exploration
Photography&
Documentary Film
Photography&
Documentary Film
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC PROJECTS AROUND THE WORLD
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 13
Benadiri traditional
weaving practice
in Somalia
ABUKAR OSMA ABIKAR
AGE 57
Crossing and exploration
of Russia's Novaya
Zemlya icecap
BØRGE OUSLAND
AGE 50
Neanderthal extinction
and replacement by
modern humans in
Portuguese caves
JONATHAN A. HAWS
AGE 44
Conserving snow leopards
with community participation
in northern Pakistan
SHAFQAT HUSSAIN
AGE 43
Filtering air and
stormwater using green
roofs in southern China
TONG WANG
AGE 30
The luminous life
of deep coral reefs
DAVID GRUBER
AGE 40
Africa
75 GRANTS
Oceania
33 GRANTS
Europe
55 GRANTS
Asia
108 GRANTS
Society&
Culture
Human Origins
Animals&
Habitat
Society&
Culture
Climate&
Environment
Climate&
Environment
Lost Civilizations
Ancient Earth
Ancient Earth
Animals&
Habitat
Animals&
Habitat
Animals&
Habitat
Education
Climate&
Environment
Innovation&
Technology
Lost Civilizations
Ancient Earth
Adventure&
Exploration
Photography&
Documentary Film
Space Exploration
Society&
Culture
Society&
Culture
Climate&
Environment
Innovation&
Technology
Innovation&
Technology
Lost Civilizations
Lost Civilizations
Ancient Earth
Human Origins
Human Origins
Adventure&
Exploration
Photography&
Documentary Film
Photography&
Documentary Film
Photography&
Documentary Film
Adventure&
Exploration
For more than a century, we have partnered with generous donors to fund nearly 11,000
exploration grants, including those to 488 of the world's best explorers, researchers, and
storytellers in 2012. Last year, National Geographic also made more than 60 education
grants, totaling nearly $3 million, to promote geography, science, and culture in the U.S.
ANTARCTICA and WORLDWIDE GRANTS
Not visualized are three grants in Antarctica (in
Adventure & Exploration, Animals & Habitat, and
Ancient Earth) as well as two worldwide grants
(Animals & Habitat and Innovation & Technology).
14 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
TO KNOW THE WORLD IS TO CHANGE IT
National Geographic is engaged in a number of educational initiatives for
students, teachers, parents, and explorers. One example of the importance
we place on education is the National Geographic Student Expeditions
Scholarship Program, which provides financial support for high school
students seeking educational summer experiences they could not otherwise
afford. Since its creation in 2008, the program has awarded full scholarships--
and life-changing experiences--to 83 students from around the U.S. for travel
to locations around the globe. One of the 17 students awarded a scholarship
in 2012 traveled to Alaska. "It was truly an incredible and spectacular trip
that I will never forget," she said. "I want to continue to travel all over the
world someday, not as a tourist but as an explorer. That mindset is something
I learned from National Geographic Student Expeditions and that I will hold
on to forever."
The scholarship fund is made possible by the generosity of donors. For more details about
how to make a contribution, please visit ngstudentexpeditions.org.
EDUCATE
GETTING YOUTH INTO THE OUTDOORS CAN CHANGE THE WORLD
"When kids who have very little really experience the power of the great outdoors, it
can change their whole lives," National Geographic Emerging Explorer Juan Martinez
has said. Growing up among rampant poverty and violence, Martinez found mean-
ing and solace in his high school's Eco Club, where he started out planting jalapeño
seeds to get out of a failing grade in science class--but ended up being accepted
for a two-week scholarship trip to Wyoming's Teton Science Schools. A decade later,
Martinez found himself in Rocky Mountain National Park to participate in the sixth
annual BioBlitz, hosted by National Geographic and the National Park Service,
with presenting sponsors GEICO and Verizon Wireless. There he worked with young
learners to excite and motivate them to care about the national parks and their
natural beauty. The event drew more than 5,000 people, including 2,000 students,
who accompanied field scientists to help identify and document as many species
of plants, animals, microbes, fungi, and other organisms as possible in 24 hours.
The species count at the closing ceremony was 489, but a bald eagle passing
overhead during the ceremony raised the count to 490.
nationalgeographic.org/bioblitz
National Geographic has had a close
relationship with the National Park
Service since it helped draft legislation to
establish the service in . National
Geographic has given grants to establish or
sustain national parks and has extensively
covered the parks in its media for nearly
a century. The  BioBlitz in Rocky
Mountain National Park was the sixth of
ten annual BioBlitzes held at national
park units around the country leading up
to the National Park Service's centennial
in . The first took place in  at
Rock Creek Park in Washington, D.C.
16 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
INSPIRING STUDENTS TO CARE FOR THEIR ENVIRONMENT
In September, with support from Annenberg Learner (a project of the Annenberg
Foundation), National Geographic Education and Heal the Bay (a nonprofit that
works to make California's coastal waters safe and clean) released a series of visually
compelling, comprehensive guides for teachers on oceans, water, energy, and climate
change. Heal the Bay has been a longtime supporter of California's Education and
the Environment Initiative (EEI), which was passed into law in 2003 and is designed
to cultivate students' understanding of their relationship to the environment. Tested
with students in California and Washington, D.C., these guides were developed
for third- through eighth-grade educators, following EEI guidelines. The guides--
"Earth's Fresh Water," "One Ocean," "Changing Climate," and "Energy Potential"--
are available free online and provide accessible explanations on topics ranging from
alternative energy solutions to sustainable fisheries. NG Education is also partnering
with Annenberg Learner to produce, deliver, and administer a Massive Open Online
Course for teacher professional development around the EEI, to be delivered through
Google's Course Builder platform.
natgeoed.org/eei
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 17
TEACHING FROM THE SKIES
Pilot, educator, and 2012 Emerging Explorer Barrington Irving knows that igniting
the curiosity of young people can be as simple as sharing your experience with them.
When he was 15, an airline pilot sparked his interest in aviation by letting him sit
inside the cockpit of a plane and go fly-
ing. "I was hooked. I only flew over my
neighborhood, but I realized that there
is a world out there."
He subsequently decided to pass
on a full football scholarship to pursue
his aviation dreams--a decision many
thought was foolish. Soon after this,
however, he became the youngest
person and the only African American
to fly solo around the world. He set out
to circumnavigate the globe with no
weather radar, no de-icing system, and
just $30 in his pocket.
During his journey, 300,000 stu-
dents followed him online. Their inter-
est inspired him to create a nonprofit
organization, Experience Aviation,
which challenges kids to improve their
understanding of math, science, engi-
neering, and technology with activities
like building planes from scratch. "I had
a student who couldn't point out a
sixteenth of an inch on a ruler, and now
she's on a full scholarship as a math
major at Duke University."
Now he's transforming a small jet into a classroom that will allow him to
teach from the air, broadcasting from 45,000 feet and connecting to students on
the ground through video streaming and classroom calls. "Meaningful, real-world
learning experiences fire up the neurons in kids' minds. If you don't do that, you've
lost them."
nationalgeographic.org/explorers/bios/barrington-irving/
Above: National Geographic Emerging Explorer Barrington Irving is the youngest person
to fly solo around the world. Opposite page: A diver explores a giant kelp forest off Anacapa
Island--part of Channel Islands National Park in California--as a garibaldi fish looks on.
18 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
BRINGING THE WORLD TO TEACHERS
Grosvenor Teacher Fellowships are awarded each year to provide a once-in-a-lifetime
expedition experience to a select group of teachers who will, in turn, share their
inspiration, knowledge, and tales of adventure with their students and communities.
The fellowship program was created in 2007 as a way for Sven-Olof Lindblad,
founder of Lindblad Expeditions, to honor National Geographic Society Chairman
Emeritus Gil Grosvenor's lifelong commitment to K-12 geography education. This
field-based professional development opportunity recognizes hardworking educators
who have demonstrated a strong commitment to geography education.
This past summer, 14 fellows traveled to Norway on an 11-day voyage aboard the
National Geographic Explorer. "As a
teacher, I am hungry to learn," said one
of the fellows. "I want to deepen my
current scientific understanding, keep
up with innovative ways to use tech-
nology in the classroom, and find new
techniques to inspire students and to
deliver content. I came off the ship with
my eyes wide open to the beauty of the
natural world, and I am ready to bring
this to my students and my community."
In 2012, Peter and Rhondda Grant
of Denver, who are frequent travelers
with NGS and Lindblad, contributed
$50,000 to help support the overall
program and provide the opportunity
for a Grosvenor Teacher Fellow to be selected from their home state. The Grants
see this as their way of paying it forward: "We have been fortunate to travel to many
parts of our world and have enhanced our knowledge of other cultures and resources
within the context of geography."
natgeoed.org/gtf
Above: Travelers enjoy themselves on a Lindblad Expedition. Lindblad has joined forces with
National Geographic to provide extraordinary travel experiences and disseminate geographic
knowledge. Opposite page: National Geographic Kids magazine staff laid out , shoes at
Society headquarters in an attempt to set the record for the largest collection of shoes to recycle.
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 19
INSPIRING KIDS TO BE THE NEXT GENERATION OF EXPLORERS
2012 was a big year for National Geographic Kids, which inspires young adventur-
ers to explore their world through award-winning magazines, books, videos, apps,
games, toys, television series, and events. Some highlights from the year include:
· National Geographic Kids magazine reached more than four million readers a month.
· National Geographic Little Kids won a Parents' Choice Gold Award for the sixth year
in a row, while NG Kids received a Parents' Choice Recommended Award.
· NG Kids published 86 new titles for young people, selling nearly 3.2 million copies.
Almanac 2013 sold more than 321,000 copies.
· Many NG Kids books were award winners, including the Book of Animal Poetry,
which made the New York Public Library 100 Titles for Reading and Sharing, the
Kirkus Best Children's Books List, and 100 Magnificent Children's Books of 2012.
· NG Kids engaged young people around the world to set a Guinness World Record
for the most people to run 100 meters in 24 hours, with a total of 30,914 people
participating. Readers also donated 16,407 shoes for a record that was set in 2013
for most shoes to be recycled.
· In the 2012 NG Kids Hands-on Explorer Challenge contest, thousands of entrants
submitted essays on exploration. The 15 winners were taken on the field trip of
a lifetime--a ten-day expedition to Montana.
kids.nationalgeographic.com/kids/
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
20 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
WE ARE ALL EXPLORERS
The work of National Geographic extends far beyond the walls of our
Washington, D.C., headquarters. It is critical to us that we engage with
our members the world over and share the amazing, the groundbreaking,
the beautiful--and the ugly.
ENGAGE
SHOWCASING "THE MOST BEAUTIFUL
AND WONDERFUL OF LIVING THINGS"
Nineteenth-century naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace wrote that New Guinea's birds
of paradise "must be ranked as one of the most beautiful and most wonderful of
living things." National Geographic readers, viewers, and museum visitors learned
why, last fall, on seeing the results of 18 expeditions undertaken by photographer and
Expeditions Council grantee Tim Laman and ornithologist Ed Scholes to document
all 39 species of birds of paradise for the first time.
The National Geographic Museum exhibition, National Geographic magazine
article, documentary, and book were the results of more than eight years of work by
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 21
Laman and Scholes, who traveled to the remote New Guinea rain forest to study
and record the extraordinary colors, bizarre feathers, habitat, and courtship dances
of these birds, known as virtuosos of the avian world and case studies in the
evolutionary power of sexual selection.
nationalgeographic.org/events
LOVE UGLY
2012 Emerging Explorer Lucy Cooke is on a one-woman crusade to show the world
why some of the most unlovable animals are actually the most interesting and
deserving of our attention, study, and protection. She prefers the "weird and quirky
creatures" that get overshadowed by the charismatic megafauna of the world--
animals like the aquatic scrotum frog, whose very name puts it at a public relations
disadvantage; or the sloth, named after one of the seven deadly sins, with an unfair
reputation for being lethargic.
With a background in zoology and filmmaking, Cooke, or the "Amphibian Avenger"
as she is sometimes known, is the perfect person to share the stories of these less
loved animals, many of which are wonders of evolution deserving of our admiration.
They include animals like frogs, whose extinction crisis was largely overlooked
for years. "One of the most important environmental stories of our time was being
ignored, simply because the star didn't have a furry face," says Cooke. Her series
Freaks and Creeps on Nat Geo WILD brings viewers the weird, the ugly, and the
unappreciated animals of the world--and helps others love them and care for their
survival as much as she does.
nationalgeographic.org/explorers/bios/lucy-cooke/
The beautiful birds of paradise (opposite
page)-- species documented in New
Guinea by explorers Tim Laman and Ed
Scholes--provide a colorful contrast to
Emerging Explorer Lucy Cooke's favored
"ugly" animals, such as a three-toed sloth
and a termite-eating pangolin.
22 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
BIG CATS INITIATIVE ROARING LOUDER THAN EVER
Now in its fourth year, the Big Cats Initiative (BCI) continues to raise awareness
about the plight of big cats and stem their decline in the wild. In 2012, BCI awarded
13 grants totaling more than $400,000, including our first grants supporting Amur
(Siberian) tigers in Russia and snow leopards in Pakistan and Nepal. Our grantees are
working to reduce human-wildlife conflict and developing innovative programs to
protect and preserve big cats in the wild.
Explorers-in-Residence and BCI founders Dereck and Beverly Joubert were
featured on CBS's 60 Minutes in November. "We've spent thousands of hours with
them," Dereck said of their more than 30 years of filming and photographing Africa's
big cats. "We've spent more hours with lions than we have at university, at school,
or with either of our parents. So this is our family in many ways." More than $19,000
in donations was raised for BCI as a direct result of the segment. The Jouberts also
released their newest film, The Unlikely Leopard, on Nat Geo WILD in 2012. The film
follows clumsy, adorable Dikeledi on his journey from cub to stealthy hunter.
In December, Nat Geo WILD's third annual Big Cat Week opened with the premiere
of Snow Leopard of Afghanistan, following the first ever expedition to capture and
collar one of those elusive cats. Meanwhile, shy, shrewd, and delicately built cheetahs
were a November feature story in National Geographic magazine. Associated online
content included high-definition, slow-motion video of the world's fastest land mammal.
causeanuproar.org
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 23
NAT GEO LIVE DOWN UNDER
National Geographic's popular speaker series expanded its reach to the Southern
Hemisphere in 2012, bringing the stories, images, and insights of our photographers,
explorers, and filmmakers to Australia's legendary Sydney Opera House. Photographer
Brian Skerry opened the series in October with his "Ocean Soul" presentation, focused
on his images of seamounts and the Mesoamerican Reef for National Geographic
magazine. Annie Griffiths, one of National Geographic's first women photographers
and a true pioneer in crossing cultural barriers, shared her stories through "A Camera,
Two Kids, and a Camel" in November. December audiences were treated to photog-
rapher Mattias Klum's striking images from his most recent expeditions to the world's
last wild places. Sydney is the first location for the Nat Geo Live: Pacific series, with
plans for expansion to Melbourne, Auckland, and Singapore in 2013.
nationalgeographic.org/museum
Above: The famous Sydney Opera House serves as the local host for NG Live events Down Under.
Opposite page (left): One of the most vulnerable of the big cats, with fewer than , remaining
in the wild, a cheetah's unique anatomy--including a flexible spine and semi-retractable claws--
makes it perfectly designed for running.
24 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
EXPOSING THE ILLICIT IVORY TRADE
The cover story for the October 2012 issue of National Geographic magazine revealed
that the global religious market for ivory is a driving force behind elephants being
illegally killed across Africa at the highest rates in a decade. Author Bryan Christy
exposed a thriving market for ivory in the Philippines and traced a fascination with ivory
to St. Peter's Square in Vatican City, where ivory icons are for sale. In Thailand, demand
is driven by the belief that carving in ivory honors both the animal and Buddha. The
article pointed to flaws in the strategies used by CITES, the treaty organization that
sets international wildlife trade policy, which emphasizes rewarding countries for
seizures of ivory over prosecution of large-scale ivory dealers, whose crimes cost the
lives of both elephants and the African rangers hired to protect them.
The report inspired a National Geographic film, Battle for the Elephants, which
premiered on PBS in February 2013. Christy and Aidan Hartley took viewers undercover
as they investigated the criminal network behind ivory's supply and demand. It also
resulted in a high-ranking cleric--who had given Christy a primer on smuggling ivory--
being stripped of his position on orders from the Vatican, and raids were conducted
on ivory businesses in Vatican City and the Philippines. Additionally, the report has led
to numerous Internet petitions to stop ivory trade, and the impact continues.
nationalgeographic.org/bloodivory
Above: In Africa, elephants are being illegally killed for their ivory tusks at the highest rates in
a decade. Opposite page: Explorer-in-Residence Spencer Wells directs the Genographic Project.
His fascination with the past has led him in search of human populations that hold the history
of humankind in their DNA.
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 25
DOES YOUR STORY HAVE A SURPRISE BEGINNING?
More than a half million people from 130 countries participated in the first phase of
National Geographic's Genographic Project--the multiyear global research initiative
that uses DNA to map the history of human migration. The second phase builds on
seven years of collecting data from around the world and examines nearly 150,000
DNA identifiers from across the entire human genome. People can purchase the
latest Geno 2.0 kit and take a painless cheek swab that they then send in for analysis.
They learn how their DNA is affiliated with various regions around the world and even
if they have traces of Neanderthal or Denisovan ancestry from our ancient hominid
cousins. Participants receive their results through a multi-platform Web experience
with full visualizations of their migratory path and regional connections, and they can
share their stories with the broader Genographic Project community.
The project's second phase incorporates an educational component called
GenoThreads, which connects students and teachers around the world using Geno-
graphic participation kits to study science, culture, and geography. In the first
GenoThreads project, high school students in Switzerland are sharing their results
with students across the world in Singapore.
A portion of the proceeds from the sale of Genographic participation kits funds
project research and the Genographic Legacy Fund, which awards grants to support
community-led cultural conservation and revitalization initiatives among indigenous
and traditional communities around the world. So far, the Genographic Project has
provided 62 Legacy Fund grants worth $1.7 million.
nationalgeographic.org/genographic
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
26 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
A climber hoists himself up at
a Mustang cave entrance in Nepal.
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 27
National Geographic products and programs won
numerous awards from several entities in 2012:
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
· NGS was awarded Carbonfund.org's For Planet
and People Media Award for its commitment to
sustainable practices and efforts to reduce the
Society's carbon footprint.
· NGS was honored by the Asia Foundation and The
Lotus Circle for its work to help improve the lives
of Afghan girls through education and large-scale
refurbishing of heavily damaged girls' schools.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC MAGAZINE
American Society of Magazine Editors Ellie Award
· National Geographic's tablet edition won a Digital
Ellie Award.
World Press Awards
National Geographic photographic coverage
claimed four World Press Awards:
· First Place: Contemporary Issues Stories --
Stephanie Sinclair, "Child Brides"
· First Place: Nature Stories -- Brent Stirton,
"Rhino Wars"
· Second Place: Nature Stories -- Carsten Peter,
"Vietnam's Infinite Cave"
· Third Place: General News Story -- David
Guttenfelder, "Japan's Nuclear Refugees"
Pictures of the Year International
· National Geographic was honored in 12 categories
in the Pictures of the Year International (POYi)
competition, including a Global Vision Award for
Steve Winter's December tiger coverage and
for Best Use - Magazine.
Harris Poll EquiTrend
· National Geographic was named Harris Poll
EquiTrend's Magazine Brand of the Year.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC TRAVELER
Digital Magazine Awards
· National Geographic Traveler won Travel Magazine
of the Year for its iPad edition at the Digital
Magazine Awards.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC KIDS
Parents' Choice
· Little Kids won a Parents' Choice Gold Award;
National Geographic Kids won a Parents' Choice
Recommended Award.
Association of Educational Publishers
National Geographic Kids won three Association of
Educational Publishers (AEP) Awards:
· Innovation Award -- National Geographic Kids
magazine iPad app
· Two Distinguished Achievement Awards for Article
Design and News Story for "Cheetahs: Built for
Speed" and "We Survived September 11"
DIGITAL MEDIA
Webby Awards
National Geographic Digital Media won three
People's Choice Webby Awards across various
categories, given by the International Academy
of Digital Arts and Sciences:
· Magazine Website -- NGM.com
· Green Website -- National Geographic Environment
· Education & Reference App -- "50 Greatest
Photographs of National Geographic"
Design Award
·"National Parks by National Geographic" won
in the iPhone Developer Showcase category in
the Apple Design Awards.
VENTURES
NAACP Image Award
· National Geographic Cinema Ventures'
The First Grader won an NAACP Image Award
for Outstanding Writing in a Motion Picture.
Giant Screen Cinema Association
· Flying Monsters 3D was awarded the Best
Marketing Campaign by a Distributor by
the Giant Screen Cinema Association.
Wildscreen Panda Awards
National Geographic Cinema Ventures won two
Wildscreen Panda Awards:
· 3D Award -- Flying Monsters 3D
· Music Award -- The Last Lions
ADVERTISING
M&M Global Awards
· A media campaign partnership spearheaded by
National Geographic's International Advertising
team was announced the Best Campaign Reaching
Influential and Political Decision Makers at the
23rd annual M&M Global Awards in London.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC CHANNEL
Emmys (News & Documentary)
· The New Generation Explorers Campaign
won a News & Documentary Emmy Award for
Outstanding Promotional Announcement.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC GAMES
Wildscreen Panda Awards
· National Geographic Games, in partnership
with Nat Geo WILD, won a New Media Award for
"Kinect Nat Geo TV."
EDUCATION
Interactive Media Awards
· The Education website garnered three Interactive
Media Awards for Outstanding Achievement in the
Youth, Nonprofit, and Education categories.
AWARDS AND SPECIAL RECOGNITION
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
28 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
$1,000,000 AND ABOVE
Alibaba
Lucy and Henry Billingsley
David H. Koch
Lockheed Martin Corporation
National Science Foundation
Shell International B.V.
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation
Swedish Postcode Lottery
$500,000 AND ABOVE
Anonymous (2)
Blancpain
Coty SAS
Google
Oracle
Estate of Sharon S. Scotti*
$250,000 AND ABOVE
Sprague Bartels
Rosemary and Roger Enrico
The Lee and Juliet Folger Fund
Fox Networks Group
GEICO
The Mildred J. Husband Revocable
Living Trust*
International Paper
The Henry Luce Foundation
Rolex
Gayle and Ed Roski, Jr.
The Harold and Mary Margaret
Shore Trusts*
Verizon Foundation
Donna and Garry Weber
$100,000 AND ABOVE
Anonymous
Jeffrey and Darlene Anderson
The Asen Foundation
Barbara Bowman
The Case Foundation
Shirley R. Deering
The Charles Engelhard Foundation
Fairmont Hotels & Resorts
Bert Headden and Cindy Thomas
Mr. Willie C. Jones, Jr.
Dr. Theodore and
Mrs. Monica Nicholas
Plum Creek
Royal Bank of Canada
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Rutherfoord, Jr.
M. Sickels, Ph.D.
The Walton Family Foundation
Tracy and Catherine Wolstencroft
Frank R. Wraspir
$50,000 AND ABOVE
The Annenberg Foundation
Judith Brown
The Keith Campbell Foundation
for the Environment, Inc.
David and Alice Court
Dallas Women's Foundation
Bruce and Mary Feay
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Grant
Mrs. Jane N. Holt
Kautz Family Foundation
Iara Lee & George Gund Foundation
David P. Margulies
Pamela Mars Wright
Mark and Inna Moore
Estate of William R. Pennington*
Puerto Rico Tourism Company
Malcolm S. Rountree Trust*
The Seaver Institute
Mr. Earl Shallow
Smart Bomb Interactive
Estate of Lois B. Sweet*
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
United States Agency for
International Development
$25,000 AND ABOVE
Anonymous (3)
Robert K. Black and
J. Ormond Sanderson, Jr.
The Walter A. Bloedorn Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Darlow G. Botha
The Brinson Foundation
ESRI
Gannett National Shared
Service Center
James and Sjon Harless
Ms. Karine Hauser and
Ms. Anna Hauser
Howard and Virginia Hight
Barbara D. Hitchings (In memory
of Lola Fisher Gast)
Sara H. Horsman
Estate of Violet K. Ihlenfeld*
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Kampf
Rev. Paul P. Koszarek
Marguerite and Gerry Lenfest
Estate of Irwin A. Levy*
Teryl and Michael Matkins
Greg Moga and Mary Dunn-Moga
Harold M. and Adeline S. Morrison
Family Foundation
Seymour and Pearl Moskowitz
Mr. and Mrs. Gib Myers
One World Apparel, LLC
The Randolph Company in memory
of Louise Dieterle Nippert
Jill and Richard Sideman
Vinny and Tori Smith
Mr. Richard Sneider and
Mr. Fabian Oberfeld
Thomas H. Stutzman
Wallace Genetic Foundation, Inc.
Leo and Angie Wells
YMCA of Greater Seattle
$10,000 AND ABOVE
Anonymous (8)
The Acacia Foundation
Air Traffic Control Education Fund, Inc.
Ms. Miriam Azoubel*
Manuel and Claire Barron
Brendan and Helen Bechtel
Ms. Virginia Busch
The Coca-Cola Company
Code Blue Foundation
Mrs. Ann W. Driver
L. E. Duke Foundation
Daniel and Vivian Edelson
Dr. Lloyd H. Elliott*
John and Heidi Fahey
Fox International Channels Italy SRL
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Tom and Pat Gipson
The Honorable Daniel S. Goldin
Ingrid E. Hanzer
Christine R. Heidtke
James and Rebecca Helm
Ms. Mary L. Hines
William Logan Hopkins and
Richard B. Anderson
Iron Horse Vineyards
IslandWood
Ms. Liselotte S. Koerner
The Krupp Foundation
Ms. Maria Elena Lagomasino
Bruce and René Lauer
Mr. Serge Martin, President,
The Great Explorers
Dr. Dori McLennan
Microsoft
R. C. Mitchell
Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation
The North Face
Office of Naval Research
Ms. Jean Osbon
Dr. and Mrs. Michael Pillsbury
J.G. Schmidt
Share Fund
Dr. Robert L. Smith
Southwest Airlines
Taffy J. Stern
Mr. and Mrs. R.W. Tanner
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Trebek
Mr. Robert H. Walden
Mrs. Rosemary J. Keates Witty
Dr. Amy B. Worell
$5,000 AND ABOVE
Anonymous (2)
The Honorable Joan Abrahamson
and Dr. Jonathan D. Aronson
Terry B. Adamson and Ede Holiday
Mr. Sanford Baklor and
Mrs. Arlene Kaufman
Mr. Frank Batten, Jr.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF GIFTS
National Geographic donors are key partners in our work to explore, educate, and
engage others. We are most grateful for the support of the generous individuals,
families, corporations, foundations, and agencies shown here. This list reflects gifts
received between January 1 and December 31, 2012.
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 29
Amy J. Bernstein
Mr. Gaetano Cecchini
The Dorothy Cholnoky Family
Mr. and Mrs. Vance Coffman
Zenia E. Cortes, M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Brian Dailey
Estate of Mr. and
Mrs. Peter G. Danielsen*
Mr. Peter D. Davis
Daybrook Resources Corporation
Andrea E. Dent
Dr. Cristina De Santis
William and Janice Dircks
Mr. and Mrs. Jeremy Dole
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Dresher
Nick and Cheri Faust
Ms. Susan K. Feagin
First Cornerstone Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Flaster
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Garrison
Dr. Jennifer M. Grace
Mr. and Mrs. Fredrick Gregorian
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Grieser
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Haas
Paul and Jill Hacker
Ms. Nancy Handel and
Mr. Joseph Sweeney
Richard and Jeanne Hannan
Mr. and Mrs. Per Heidenreich
William W. Hildreth
Mr. Alan Hill and Dr. Margaret Hill
Ann and Chad Holliday
Mr. Gregory Holt
Mr. and Mrs. Jon Holt
Lauren Hannan Hudson
Mr. Clifford Hunte
Dwight L. Johnson
Estate of Kathleen W. Kaminer*
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Kaye
Mr. Jesse Keefe and
Ms. Michele Whitham
Mr. Richard T. Kennedy and
Ms. Heidi E. Morgan
Ann and Tom Korologos
Mr. and Mrs. William Landreth
Deborah Lehr
Dr. and Mrs. Daniel Lorber
Murray Lumpkin and Lucy Rose
Mr. and Mrs. Gerard Lynch
Mr. and Mrs. Sethu V. Madhavan
Jeff, Bronwen, Rhiannon and
Rhys Martin
Julia A. McGee
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Meeker
Roy O. Mitchell Charitable Trust*
Mr. Bobby Model*
Mary Ann and Richard Morse
Mrs. Ruth O. Mutch
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Ramsay
Estate of Sarah Reader*
The Honorable and
Mrs. William K. Reilly
Dr. and Mrs. Kevin Rodondi
Todd and Donna Rosenberg
Foundation
Mr. Ronnie Scott and Ms. Debra Burke
Dr. and Mrs. H. Shamasunder
Mrs. Norma Gudin Shaw
Mr. Theodore M. Solso
Robert N. Steinwurtzel
Mr. and Mrs. Mark E. Stevens
Estate of Millicent C. Tonich*
Miss M. Estella Vasquez
Mrs. Christy Walton
Kim and Michael Ward
Mr. and Mrs. J. Wayne Weaver
B. Wu, Eric and Eliot Larson
Mr. Stephen C. Yeazell and
Ms. Ruth Fisher
$1,000 AND ABOVE
Anonymous (43)
1100 Architect, P.C.
Ms. Frances Allen
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Allison
Altria Group, Inc.
Ameriprise Financial
Ms. Valerie L. Amerkhail
Mr. William V. Andrew
Ms. Margaret E. Andrews
Sue Anschutz-Rodgers
Argonaut Charitable Foundation
Mrs. Melda Polat Arslanpay
Sheila Steiner Asher
Ms. Nancy M. Avellino
Mr. Mohamed Ayah
Cornelia T. Bailey
Dr. and Mrs. George Baird
Dr. Mehdi Bajoghli
Malcolm G. Balfour
Bank of America
Mr. and Mrs. Lance N. Barr
Mr. Derrick E. Bass
Dr. Raymond and Mrs. Lydia Bauer
Dr. William and Gayle Bauer
Ms. Debbora L. Beattie
Albert A. Bechtoldt, Jr.
Mr. and Ms. David M. Becker
Ms. Marianne C. Belock
Robin Benson
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Bessey
Ms. Beth S. Biegler
Mr. Blake A. Biles and
Dr. Laura L. Sessums
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Bingham
Ms. Alberta F. Binns
Marilyn Foy Black
Adele Bloom
Drs. Karen and Steven Bloom
Dick and Denise Boehm
Margaret and Fred Boehm
The Boeing Company
Mr. James H. Boettcher
Mr. Gregory J. Boreham and
Ms. Nancy Fairchild
Mr. and Mrs. Matt Borenzweig
The Mill River Fund at
the Boston Foundation
Mrs. Linda J. Bozung
Ms. Jody Branson and Mr. David Baker
Ms. Lorraine C. Braswell
Mr. and Mrs. Eckhard A. W. Brause
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Brenner
Mr. John G. Brett
Ms. Kathleen S. Brinkman
Dr. and Mrs. Edwin C. Brockenbrough
Lois and Julian Brodsky
The Brown Kunze Foundation
Ms. Christina Brown
Mr. Joseph W. Brown
Wendel M. Bruss
George and Jane Bunn
Mrs. Heather K. Burgess
BNSF Railway Company
Mr. and Mrs. Jared Butcher
Nick Butcher
Alice Byers
Ms. Helene A. Cahen and
Mr. Dean Hanley
Mr. Justin Caillier
Ms. Deborah Calmeyer
Dr. and Mrs. Edgar D. Canada
Ms. Fran Carlisle
Mr. and Mrs. Richard G. Carlston
Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Carlucci
Ms. Carol A. Carozzoni
Mr. George W. Carpenter
Ms. Caitlin Carter
Sheena Chandra
John and Sarah Chapoton
Mrs. Allison H. Chester
Bill and Barbara Chrisman
Mr. William N. Chuacokiong
Mr. and Mrs. Martin R. Claire
Ms. Gail S. Cleere
Mr. and Mrs. Shane J. Clifford
Dr. and Mrs. Richard Cochran
Code Green Solutions
Dr. John and Bette Cohen
Ms. Maryanne M. Colter
Mr. and Mrs. Mark A. Combs
Community Foundation of
South Georgia, Inc.
Mr. Robert Compton
Ms. Elizabeth D. Conklyn
Conoco Phillips
Karen Conoley and Art Verharen
"I really believe in the mission of National Geographic. One cannot
imagine what the world would be like had it not been for the
successes of National Geographic--an organization that has opened
the world to many people and made the Earth a better place."
NORMA SHAW
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
30 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Corbett
Gilbert G. Coville
Ms. Carolyn Powers Cox
Mr. Benjamin F. Crane
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Cruden
Ken and Sylvia Curry
Dr. and Mrs. Thomas D'Ambra
John and Terrie Davis Family Fund
Admiral Vincent de Poix
LTC G.F. Deimel II
Mr. and Mrs. Max Dekle
The Charles Delmar Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Denby
Ms. Deborah Dennison
Mrs. Victoria K. DePalma
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Desimone
Josephine H. Detmer
Dr. and Mrs. Anthony Diaco
P.E. Diamond, M.D., LLC
Mr. Dwight Dick
Mr. and Mrs. Sean Doherty
Ms. Lynn Doran
Thomas and Constance Dotzenrod
David and Deborah Douglas
Ms. Elaine P. Douglas and
Mr. Stephen E. Mrozowski
Patricia A. Drago and
Richard W. Weissmann
Dave and Pat Drew
Mr. and Mrs. Larry D. Droppa
Mrs. Marilia Duffles and
Mr. Mark B. Dunkerley
The John P. and Anne K. Duffy
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Bradley J. Dyer
Sylvia A. Earle
Ms. Betty G. Edelson
Michael S.B. Edwards, M.D. and
Linda L. Edwards
Mr. Nathaniel S. Eek
Mr. John F. Eggert
Einstein Roots & Shoots
Dr. Alexandra Grosvenor Eller
Ms. Paula A. Ely
Mr. and Mrs. Richard England, Sr.
Ericsson
Bill and Joanne Evers
ExxonMobil Corporation
Harold & Joan Feinbloom
Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. David P. Feinbloom
Mr. and Mrs. James Fijolek
Ms. Judith P. Fisher
Linda J. Fisher
Ms. Simone I. Fitzcharles
Mr. and Mrs. Matthew H. Fleeger
Focus Management, Inc.
Dr. and Mrs. Roland Folter
Ms. Michelle B. Fontaine and
Mr. Edward Meehan
Ms. Rebecca H. Forster
Ms. Gene G. Foster
The Four Points Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Brian M. Foy
Dr. John Francis and
Ms. Nancy Hanlon
Ms. Hillary Franke
Mr. and Mrs. G. Andrew Franz
Ms. Jeanna French
Ms. Iwona Garben
The Honorable and
Mrs. Terry D. Garcia
Gardner/Mills Group, LLC
Geographic Expedition's Responsible
Travel Program
Emilio and Yleana Gerov
Michiel P. Gerritsen
Ms. Sharon Giese
Ann Gildemeister
Mr. and Mrs. Matthew G. Given
Mr. Albert Glazier and
Dr. Dorothy T. Arnold
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Glozek, Jr.
Mr. Anand V. Gokhale
Ann and Ed Golden
Mr. and Mrs. Christopher L. Gootkind
Mrs. Ellen Gordon
Mr. Michael Gordon
Robert and Mary Ann Gorlin
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Gould
Ms. Linda Grable-Curtis
Ms. Mary W. Graham
Jim and Karen Grande
Ian and Chaya Greathead
John Kaul Greene
Susan B. and Bentley C. Gregg
Mr. and Mrs. George G. B. Griffin/
Rhino Ark U.S.A.
Ken and Susan Grzybowski
Mr. Vishwanath Gupta
The Gurwin Family Foundation
George Gutierrez and
Laura Thompson
Mrs. Audrey C. Haley
Mrs. Louise Haley and
Ms. Paige Harder
Dr. Russell Ham and Dr. Adrienne Ham
Mr. William A. Hammer and
Mr. Jim Miersma
Ms. Jo Ann L. Hartline and
Ms. Melissa Barran
Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Hartman, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hartung
Ms. Beverly S. Hattersley
Rosemarie Havranek and
Nathan Myhrvold
Mr. and Mrs. Gates H. Hawn
Hawn Foundation Dallas Texas
Mr. Andy Haymaker
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C. Hays
Dr. Jacquelyn A. Hedlund
Mr. J. Michael Hemmer
Ron and Sheri Henriksen
Mr. and Mrs. Marshall V. Heuser
Mr. Robert C. Hewitt
Betty J. Hey Trust*
Mr. David L. Hicks
Ms. Catherine Hiles
Grace and John Hill
Mr. and Mrs. John Hilton
Mrs. Karen Hinchy
Mr. Douglas M. Hitchner
Ms. Ann-Louise Hittle
Anne Stokes Hochberg
Jill and Gerben Hoeksma
The Holder Family Foundation
James C. Horgan Charitable Trust*
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Hormuth
Mr. Steven Hornstein
Eric and Mary Horvitz
Ms. Holly E. Hoting
Mr. and Mrs. Earl B. Hunt
Tim and Maureen Hunter
Don and Karen Hutchison
IBM Corporation
Ms. Emiri Ikeda
Mr. Bill Jasper, Jr. and
Ms. Kristen L. McFarland
Mr. B. G. Johnson and
Ms. Linda R. Larson
Katie Johnson
Paul T. Johnson
Paul W. Jones
Ms. Susan G. Jorgensen and
Ms. Alice Gillaroo
Dereck and Beverly Joubert
Dale and Davida Kalina
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Kaplan
Mr. and Mrs. Burt Katubig
Patricia E. Kauffman
Mr. Spyros Vasileios A. Kavvadias
Ms. Allison Keeler and
Mr. Robert Mangino
Jean Keely
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Keith
Mr. and Mrs. George Kellgren
Clinton W. Kelly III and
Alberta "Missy" Allen Kelly
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Kessler
Mr. Peter B. Kibbee
Jeanie and Murray Kilgour
Mr. James V. Kimsey
Denyse A. King
Mary K. King
Mr. and Mrs. Karl S. F. Kirchner
Mr. and Mrs. Gary A. Kleiman
Mr. and Mrs. Karl R. Klinger
Gary E. Knell and Kim Larson
Mr. and Mrs. Bennie Kniffen
Ms. Lori Kolbert
Mr. Kurt W. Krukenberg
Ms. Diana Kunze and
Mr. Arthur Brown
Dr. Feng-Yang Kuo
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Kuray
Wendy S. Kurtz
Mr. and Mrs. Evan P. Kyba
Firoz and Najma Lalji
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Lang
Mr. and Mrs. Carl C. Larson
Mr. Robert H. Larson
Mrs. Marilyn R. Laurion
David and Rosalie Lawrence
The Honorable and
Mrs. Howard H. Leach
Deborah S. Leighton
Michael Libbee and Kristin Sheridan
Mr. Claes C. Lidell
Marta and Jeff Liroff
Ms. Catherine Litterer
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF GIFTS
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 31
Mickey and Bill Lively
Ms. Rebecca Lo
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Lomicka
Luisa Longo
Mr. and Mrs. Tim C. Louis
Mr. and Mrs. Scott S. Lowe
Mr. and Mrs. Gary R. Lubin
Mr. and Mrs. James B. Luke
Sandy Lyons
Alec Mackenzie
Malott Family Foundation
Mrs. Amy Maniatis and
Mr. Martin Gammon
Ms. Sole Marittimi
Mr. Peter Mark and
Ms. Elizabeth Needham
Ms. Sarah R. Mars
Virginia Cretella Mars
Mr. Lowell A. Martin
Ms. Amy L. Mattson
Mr. Jeffrey Mayer
MBIA Foundation
Mr. Timothy W. McCormick and
Mr. Jeff Brizzi
Mr. Conor McDonald
Edward McGehee
Mr. Peter McGrath and
Ms. Sandra R. Fucigna
Mrs. Jennifer McGuigan
M. Andrew McGuire
Ms. Molly McKaughan
Mr. Subhash Mehta
Mr. Douglas R. Melin
Patrick L. Melli and
Haychel Gomez Melli
Ronnie Mae Melnick-Lattanzi
Emma D. Melton
Mr. Mark C. Melvin
The Menard Family Foundation
Pamela Merriman and Sonja Ross
Dr. Ali and Stephanie Mesiwala
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Millar
Mr. David L. Miller
Katherine and David Miller
Nancy J. Miller
Synne Hansen Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Monroe
Declan and Laurel S. Moore
Katie Moore
The Moore Family Foundation
Panfilo and Diana Morelli
Mrs. Jeanne Morency
Trina and Ray Moriarity
Mr. Robert Morris
Ms. Mellicent F. Much
Dr. and Mrs. James L. Mullen
George Muñoz
Laurence and Barbara Murphy
Reg Murphy
Ms. Marsha Naify and
Ms. Ana Pinheiro
Arnold and Rosemary Nelson
The New York Community Trust
Mr. Minh Nguyen
Mr. Nick Nguyen
Dane A. Nichols
The Patrick F. Noonan Family
Pat and Jackie Noonan
Karen Nordquist
Novogradac Rivers Foundation
Nuveen Investments, Inc.
Mrs. Jennifer Okutake
Drs. O. Atilla and Marsha Onan
Dr. Paul O'Neill
The Onufrieff Family
Jim and Carol O'Reilly
Dorothy A. Oremus and
John H. Lindauer
Mr. Loren Ostrow and
Mr. Brian Newkirk
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence C. Pakula
Rebecca L. Papke
Diane Williams Parker
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Paslay
The Patrick Foundation
Ms. Patricia A. Patterson
Dan and Susan Paulien
The Dr. M. Lee Pearce Foundation
Pearson Family Foundation
Rowena A. Pecchenino
Ms. Helen C. Pekny
Ms. Lilia A. Pereiras
Will and Julie Person, Austin, TX
Ms. Ana Paula Pessoa and
Mr. Raul Trejos
Mr. Angus M. Peyton
Ralph and Alice Hall Phillips
Mr. Eric Piasecki
Ms. Mary Pigott
Barbara L. Pilert
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony M. Pisacano, M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew W. Potash
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Prentice
Prudential
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Puerzer
Mr. and Mrs. Larry J. Purcey
R M Expeditions LTD
Raleigh Charter High School, Inc.
Rare Species Fund
Martin and Anna Rathmann
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Rattin
Ann and William Regan
Renaissance Charitable
Foundation Inc.
Retrieval Masters Creditors
Bureau, Inc.
Frederick J. Retzlaff
Rhino Ark U.S.A.
Stephen and Kathleen Richards
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Richman
Patty Rickert Memorial
Rite in the Rain
Roar Africa LLC
Monica Rodal and Neal Naigus
Ms. Laurel A. Rohrer
Mr. Michael E. Rokos
Bruce and Lori Rosenblum
John and Regina Rowe
Rowe Family Foundation
Janet C. Ruhl, Ph.D. and
Theodore H. Carski, Ph.D.
Ms. Amy Rush
Ms. Terry L. Ryan
Mr. and Mrs. Faraj Saghri
Ms. Alexandra Samra
Vicki Santello
SAP Matching Gift Program
Tina and Raman Sarin
Ambassador and
Mrs. James R. Sasser
Mrs. Joyce A. Saturley
Rob and Robyn Schapiro
Mr. Lou Scharpf
Mr. and Mrs. Evan Schiller
Mr. and Mrs. Scott Schmidly
Mr. Angus Scott
The Seattle Foundation
Mr. Sanford Sexhus
Mr. Howard I. Shao
Dr. Bertrand and Mrs. Joan Shapiro
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick G. Shedd
Ms. Kimberley Y. Sheffield
Tom and Pam Sheffield
Mr. Charles F. Shelby
Ms. Diane Shore
Mr. Michael Sieverding and
Ms. Pat Widder
Ms. Leigh B. Simmons
Simple Actions Family Foundation
Ms. Nancy Sinclair and
Ms. Evelyn L. Sinclair
Mrs. Ellen Slotnick
Ms. Louise Slotnick
Mr. and Mrs. David Slump
Dr. Craig H. Smith and
Ms. Mary Susan Heffernan
Mr. Hatton C. V. Smith
Mrs. Hope Noyes Smith
Janine M. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Smith
Walter T. Smith
Beverley Marie Snyder
Ms. Margaret Sodemann
O. J. Sopranos
Dr. Janet R. Southby and
Dr. Richard F. Southby
Mr. and Mrs. John and Shirley Spinelli
Mrs. Jill Spitz
Mr. Robert St. Cyr and
Ms. Line Recouarne
Daniela Staiculescu and
Octavian Stan
Mr. and Mrs. Jason Stakes
Florence C. Stanley
Joseph W. Stanley Charitable Trust
Bob Steinberg
Stellar Solutions Foundation
Bill and Mary Sterling
Mr. Carl W. Stern and
Ms. Holly D. Hayes
John and Sherry Stilin
Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Stoessl
Ms. Carolyn Stout
Dr. and Mrs. Barry S. Strauch
Ms. Mary Streff
STW Fixed Income Management
Mr. and Mrs. Kevin G. Sullivan
Tom and Marilyn Sutton
Mr. and Mrs. Keith W. Swaby
Mr. John T. Taylor
Ms. Tamsin Taylor
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
32 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
The Alexis and Susan Te Charitable
Foundation
Dave and Cathy, Dick and Lynn, Lee,
Chris, Lauren and Blake Templeton
Robert and Marjorie Templeton
Dr. and Mrs. James A. Terry
Mr. and Mrs. Mark S. Thompson
Keith and Susan Tibbles
Michael and Amy Tiemann
Mr. John E. Toffolon, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. Tomlinson
Mr. and Mrs. James Toniolo
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Touchton, Jr.
Richard and Nydia Tranter
Mr. and Mrs. Wesley A. Traub
Kay Tuttle and Richard Hancock
UBS Financial Services, Inc.
University Of Guelph
Mr. Conrad J. Vaplon
Dr. Lelia Vaughan
Parag Vora
Mr. and Mrs. Milan F. Vuitch
Vulcan Materials Company
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Waldman
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Walker
Ms. Anna L. Walsh
Ms. Shihong Wang
Mr. Benjamin F. Ward, Jr.
Missy and Seth Warfield
Mr. Shaun H. Watson
Lucille Werlinich
Mrs. Frankie West
The Weston Foundation
Mr. Claude Wetzel and
Ms. Lori Marshall
Ray and Gina Wheeland
White & Case, LLP
Mr. and Mrs. William H. White
Diane M. Whiteley and Legends
Escrow Services, Inc.
William Grant & Sons, Inc.
Mr. Joeff Williams
Mr. William H. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Wilmot
Tracie Winbigler and Andrew Seay
Ms. Heather A. Wingard
Mr. and Mrs. John Winthrop
Ann P. Wyckoff
Mr. Clinton R. Wyckoff
Melissa A. Yeager and
Cory H. Van Arsdale
Mr. Mark Yoshino and Mrs. Grace Hou
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Young
Ken Zaremba and Susan Kamprath
Bob and Sandy Zook
Mr. Thomas M. Zulim
$500 AND ABOVE
Anonymous (15)
2152065 Ontario, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Danny W. Adkins
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Aitken
Mrs. Diane Alberthal
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Allen
Ms. Mary W. Allen
Ms. Susan K. Allen
Drs. Ralph and Lesley Althouse
American Express
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Anderson
Mr. Jeffrey S. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Andrews
Mr. George C. Andriotis
Mr. Robert J. Atwater and
Mrs. Susan Richland
Ms. Janis Augustin
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Auslander
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Ayyad
Ms. Karen Azarchi
Ms. Mary M. Bachman and
Mr. William Downing
Ms. Terri L. Backhus and
Ms. Pamela Izakowitz
Mr. and Mrs. Russell M. Bacon
Mr. William Badertscher and
Mr. Stuart Caplan
Grant and Carolyn Baecker
Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey W. Baillie
Mrs. Hope Lincoln Baker
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Bakke
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Baserman
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Beck
Mr. and Mrs. Reinier Beeuwkes
Mr. Cyrus Behbahany
Dean and Carolyn Behse
Mr. and Mrs. David A. Bell
Bel-Rea Institute of
Animal Technology
Mrs. Coro Bernal Irastorza
Mr. and Mrs. John Bernard
Mr. Nils Berntsson
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Bessey
Ms. Sharon E. Best
Mr. and Mrs. Detlef Bindert
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bingham
Bingham Kearns Charitable Fund
Mr. Robert D. Bingham and
Ms. Carol L. Kearns
Ms. Pamela C. Bird
Mr. and Mrs. Kent Birge
Mr. Alfred D. Bjelland and
Ms. Elsie Caston
Mr. James Blais and
Ms. Jennifer Weyler
Ms. Katharine Blakeslee
Mr. and Mrs. Mike Borden
Mr. and Mrs. David J. Borgen
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Borland
Mr. and Mrs. Keith Bowman
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Bowman
Mr. Anthony K. Bracken
Mr. and Mrs. William M. Bracken
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Bradford
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Brand
Mr. and Mrs. Bill Brautigam
Mr. Andrew Brennan
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart R. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Steven T. Brownlie
Mrs. Carole Bryan
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Bryan
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Bryngelson
Ms. Susan K. Burke
Daniel and Rilla Burnett
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Burns
Mr. Scott M. Busch
Kath Bussiere
Mr. and Mrs. James Byron
Ms. Cynthia C. Cage
Mr. Aydin S. Caginalp
Mr. and Mrs. Brian Caple
Mr. Francesco Cardi
Dr. Anne B. Cardwell
Mrs. Belina Carranza
Miss Alejandra Cespedes
Mr. and Mrs. David D. Chang
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Chapman
Mrs. Janet M. Chapman
Mr. Eric D. Chasanoff and
Ms. Elizabeth Ann Kanasky
Chevron Corporation
Chicago Community Trust
Dr. ShihMing Chiu
Mr. Kenneth Chojnacki and
Ms. Nicole Yurgin
Ms. Joan M. Christophersen and
Mr. James D. Carney
Francis Cianciolo
Ms. Virginia R. Cirica
Ms. Lynne Clare
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Clark
Classic Escapes, Inc.
Mr. Michael R. Clover and
Ms. Eva Stuart
Ms. Diana K. Cobb
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Codey
Mr. and Mrs. Virgil M. Coker
Ms. Katherine Cole
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis D. Coleman
Mr. and Mrs. Elmer W. Colglazier
Mr. and Mrs. Kevin P. Collins
Mr. Richard D. Colton and
Dr. Della D. Cohen
Ms. C. Tania Condurache and
Mr. George C. Rodgers, Jr.
Ms. Nancy L. Congdon
Mr. Joel Conner
Mr. Scott L. Conner and
Ms. Hazel Hoff
Mr. and Mrs. David O. Conover
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Cooper III
Mr. Lawrence R. Cooper and
Ms. Lesley V. Matthews
Mr. and Mrs. Lee G. Cooper
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Corbett
Mr. and Mrs. Peter B. Cotton
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Coulter, Jr.
Jesse Cox
Mr. and Mrs. Gary Cramer
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Creelman
Mr. and Mrs. David Crossen
Ms. Patsy Culver and
Mr. Kenneth S. Durham
Mr. Blaine L. Curtis and
Ms. Teresa A. Grow
Lynn Cutter
Mr. and Mrs. Mark J. Czaja
Dr. and Mrs. Brian K. Dallaire
Mr. Donald J. Danila
Ms. Elizabeth C. Davis
Ms. Laura M. Davis
Ms. Charlotte K. Day and
Mr. Frank Smith
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF GIFTS
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 33
Ema de Freitas
Rosemary and David Deahl
Betsy and Michael Deasy
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Delay
Mr. Richard Delong and
Ms. Opal F. Adams
Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan M. Desimone
Lilly Dimling
Mr. and Mrs. Brian J. Diran
Discovery Place, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Dixon
Mr. and Mrs. Eugen Dolan
Ms. Christa M. Dolce and
Mr. Jeffrey A. Croshier
Mr. Gary R. Donner and
Ms. Irene Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Mark E. Dowling
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Drake
Mr. Christopher Dubois and
Ms. Nancy H. Davidian
Stewart A. Dunn, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. George B. Durham
Mr. Elzy Echols
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eckberg
Ms. Lyn Devon Edelman
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy O. Edgar
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Edwards
Ms. Gail Erickson and Mr. Phil Lanum
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Esmon
Mr. Martin J. Evans and
Ms. Helen Copping
Mr. and Mrs. William Fallon
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Farcus
Ms. Marie Farestveit
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel J. Farrell
Mr. Udo Fehn and Ms. Christine Long
Mr. and Mrs. Bradley Feinberg
Ms. Eva Feldman and Mr. Neal Little
Ms. Claudia H. Fenton
Mr. and Mrs. Jason Ferrari
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth A. Fetter
Mr. Jeffrey Fiedler
Mr. and Mrs. John Robert Fields
Mr. John Finnan
Mr. and Mrs. Owen G. Fiore
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Fishman
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Fitzpatrick
FJC
L. Suzanne Flom
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Fontaine
Mr. and Mrs. Roger T. Fortin
Mr. and Mrs. Scott Fossel
Mr. and Mrs. Neil B. Fossum
Mr. and Mrs. Michael S. Frankel
Mr. and Mrs. Philip A. Franzel
Mr. Myrick Freeman and
Ms. Claire Darrow
Mr. and Mrs. Barry N. French
David and Judy French
Ms. Suzanne E. Frey
Ms. De Ann Friedholm
Ms. Joanne B. Friedland
Mrs. Jacquelyn S. Frigon
Mr. and Mrs. Randall Fuller
Mr. and Mrs. Gary L. Gamel
Ms. Deborah Gary
Dr. and Mrs. Michel P. Gelinas
Mr. David Geronemus and
Ms. Mitzi Lyman
Mr. and Mrs. Mike Gerutto
Mr. Michael J. Gillespie
Miss Michele Gobin
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Godwin
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Mr. Paul Goldschmidt and
Ms. Kristi Hamilton
Mr. Charles O. Goldsmith
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Goldstein
Rosemary and David Good
Mr. and Mrs. Lyman Gordon
Mr. and Mrs. David J. Gottlieb
Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Grace
Ms. Mary Louise Graham
Mr. and Mrs. Donald M. Gray
Ms. Gina M. Greer
Mr. Leonard Grosso and
Mrs. Sue Jagler
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Grubel
Mrs. Selu Gupta
Mr. Ben Gurule
Miss Barbara Gutierrez Maturana
Ms. Denise Hall
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth B. Hall
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Hanger
Mr. Robert Hanlon and
Ms. Barbara MacDowall
Dr. and Mrs. Richard Harding
Mr. Casey D. Harker
Dr. and Mrs. Alan Harley
Dr. William R. Harvey
Mrs. Patricia Hathaway
Larry and Iris Hattersley
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Haulter
Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Hauser
Mr. and Ms. Eric A. Heap
Mr. and Mrs. Bradley Hemminger
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Hentz
Dr. Stefan W. Hepp and
Ms. Alison de Souza Ramos
Ms. Yvonne Hernandez
Ms. Elizabeth Heron and
Mr. Brian Marsh
Mr. Henry Hewitt
Ms. Arlene Heyman
Mr. Steve Hicks
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hockett
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Hodel
Mr. and Mrs. Curtis A. Hoffman
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Hoge
Miss Kristina M. Holcomb
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Holley
Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Holmes
Mr. Aaron Horowitz
Mr. Andrew Horowitz
Mr. and Mrs. James Houlden
Ms. Monika Houstoun
Mr. Henry H. Hsiung and
Ms. Linda Lee
Mr. and Mrs. Steven Hunt
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Ims
International School of the Americas
Mr. and Mrs. Adrian W. Jachens
Ms. Suzanne H. Jachinowski
Mr. Andrew Jackson and
Ms. Lillian Rankel
Ms. Nursine S. Jackson
Ms. Nora S. Javier and
Mr. Dexter D. Decker
Ms. Mary C. Jensen
Mr. and Mrs. Frank John
Ms. Bonita Johnson and
Mr. Lantz Crawley
Mr. E. Stewart Johnson
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Ms. Teresa L. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Peter S. Jonas
JustGive.org
Dr. and Mrs. Steven J. Katz
Drs. John and Ann Kenney
Mr. Chuck Kerkering
Mr. and Mrs. Martin Keszler
Ms. Paula S. Kiesling
Ms. Jean A. Kingston
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Klein
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Klipp
Mr. and Mrs. Mark E. Klobuchar
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Knox
Ms. Kathleen L. Komar and
Mr. Ross Shideler
Mr. and Mrs. Adel Korkor
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce P. Kossuth
Mr. and Mrs. Aivars Krasts
Mr. and Mrs. J. Steven Kraus
Mr. Charles Krause
Mr. Frank J. Kudlo and
Ms. Cindy L. Spiller
Dr. Margaret L. Kunes
Mr. and Mrs. Karl E. Kupfer
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Ladd, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Lapham
Mr. Eric Larson
Drs. Susan and Oswaldo Lastres
Mr. Charles E. Laurito and
Ms. Brenda E. Ross
Mrs. Kathy Ann Lawrence
"I support the work of National Geographic because I absolutely
love the way the organization creates a unified and engaging
whole from the images and narratives of this planet's myriad
people--their cultures, their arts, and their lands."
ANN WYCKOFF
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
34 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
Mr. and Mrs. Peter J. Lawrence
Ms. Kathrine LeBlanc
Mr. and Mrs. Johan Leffler
The Lemon Foundation
Ms. Tamara Lerner and
Dr. Richard Topel
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard LeSage
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Levine
Ms. Irene Levoy
Ms. Taliah Lewallen
Ms. Mary Ellen Lewis and
Mr. Guy Edgcomb
Mr. Robert B. Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Evan Liberman
Liberty International D.O.O.
Mr. and Mrs. Steven Liga
Mr. Andrew Ek Jiunn Lim
Mrs. Sharyn Lincoln
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Lindell
Mr. Owen Linton
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Lisanti
Mr. Chi Liu and Ms. Ellen B. Fu
Mr. and Mrs. Michael S. Logan
Mrs. Carolyn S. Lohman
Ms. Margo Wilson London and
Mr. Townsend Mikell Belser, Jr.
Mr. R. John Looney
Mr. and Mrs. Richard O. Louden
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Lynn
Mrs. Cynthia K. MacArthur
The Alexander C. MacIntyre
Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. MacKay
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Mackenzie
Mr. and Mrs. Roderick J. MacLean
Macquarie Group Foundation
Mr. Claus D. Makowka and
Ms. Patricia Ulbrich
Malott Family Foundation
Ms. Sherriann Manci
Mr. Frank Mancino
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth J. Manning
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Mason
Vernon J. Mathern
Mrs. Margaret D. Maxbauer and
Mr. Jacob G. Pluta
Stephen C. Maxson
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence J. May
Ms. Heidi Mayer
Mr. Kevin M. McCarthy
Mr. Michael McDonald and
Ms. Rebecca Wright
Mr. and Mrs. John E. McFall
Ms. Lisa McGinnis
Mr. Gary S. Mcgough
Mr. and Mrs. George McGrath
Mr. and Mrs. William D. McLanahan
Mrs. Mary Grable McLeod
Mr. and Mrs. David J. McMunn, Jr.
Mr. Mark Mendenhall and
Ms. Teresa A. Toomey
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Meranze
Mr. and Mrs. Harold G. Mercer
Ms. Katherine P. Messenger and
Mr. William Wright
Mr. John Meyer and
Ms. Kathleen Stone
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Milder
Ms. Joelle D. Miller and
Mr. Robert Slackman
Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Millin
Ms. Laurel B. Miranda
Ms. Alberta Mok
Margaret and Robert Moore
Morgan Stanley
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey E. Morris, Jr.
Ms. Roberta J. Morris
Mr. Douglas Morse
Mr. Louis Moskowitz and
Ms. Audrey L. Klein
Mr. Tyson J. Mueller
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce A. Muirhead
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Mulder
Mr. and Mrs. Craig Murrin
myCIO Wealth Partners, LLC
Mr. and Mrs. Alan S. Neal
Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. Nerenberg
Ms. Kathie E. Newman and
Mr. Bruce Bunker
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Newman
Ms. Hui Ling Ng
Nintendo of America Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Philip Niswander
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth G. Nunnelly
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel S. Nydick
Mr. and Mrs. Hajime Oba
Mr. and Mrs. William E. O'Brien
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Olmsted
Ms. Suzanne Oparil
In memory of Orangeness
Mr. David Orsmond and
Ms. Sofia Kesidou
Mr. John Osborn
Gary and Myrna Paige
Mr. and Mrs. Kyle Peltonen
Mr. Nathan Peplinski
Mr. and Mrs. Francis A. Perras
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth Peters
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Peters
Mr. and Mrs. Dmitry Petrin
Mr. Eugene M. Pfeifer and
Ms. Martha A. Bennett
Mr. and Mrs. Scott D. Phillips
Ms. Cary B. Pickard
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Pier
Mr. and Mrs. Eric N. Pierce
Dr. Patrick J. Pirotte
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Plocek
Mr. and Mrs. Michael E. Pollack
Mrs. Arleen Prairie
Mr. Thomas E. Rabe and
Mr. Robert Coffman
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Ralph
Ms. Kimberly Randal
Mr. and Mrs. David Rapley
Dr. Peter H. Raven
Mr. and Mrs. Mark H. Reed
Dr. Donna Regenstreif
Ms. Hinako Regier and
Mr. George P. Kalhorn
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Reh
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence M. Reid
Ms. Robin Reinhart
Mrs. Petra Reinheimer
Reynolds American Foundation
Ms. Pamela F. Richard
Mr. Eugene R. Richey
Mr. and Mrs. Michael D. Ricinak
Ms. Dorothy I. Riddle
Mr. Jeremiah Riddle and
Ms. Lisa Bergson
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel R. Rietz
Mr. Lawrence T. Ring
Ms. Pamela M. Ring
Mr. David A. Rivers
Ms. Patricia Robertson
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Rodman
Mrs. Jane I. Rogers
Mr. and Mrs. Randolph Rogers
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Romanow
Dr. and Mrs. Charles E. Roos
Ms. Margaret Rosander and
Ms. Debra K. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Stanton J. Rowe
Royal Cup Coffee
Ms. Lia Rubino
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen G. Rudisill
Ms. Bonnie L. Runk and
Ms. Ana M. Garcia
Tony Sabló and Lu Kleppinger
Mr. Ruben A. Saez Andres
Mr. and Mrs. Ildefonso Salido
Mr. David Scarfe and Ms. Myrl Burkett
Ms. Deborah A. Scheuer and
Mr. Howard P. Haeker
Drs. Arthur and Patty Schiff
Mr. and Mrs. Paul W. Schmid
Mr. Andrew Schoonover
Ms. Wendy Schoppert
Mr. Frank S. Schroeder and
Ms. Susan Strom
Mr. and Mrs. Christof E. Schwab
Ms. Renée A. Scola and
Mr. Thomas Lavallee
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew L. Scott
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Scott
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Scruggs
SEI
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Selis
Mrs. Nan A. Shaffner
Mr. Robert L. Shaw
Mrs. Florence L. Shekoski
Ms. Kathy A. Shield
Mr. and Mrs. Shmuel Shottan
Mr. Philip M. Silverman and
Ms. Margaret B. Clarke
Mr. Ricardo F. Siman
Ms. Leslie Simitch
Mr. and Mrs. Alan H. Simms
Mr. and Mrs. William Simpler
Mrs. Jean Sinclair
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel J. Singal
Ms. Belma Sisic
Mr. and Mrs. Edward I. Slaby
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph O. Slotkin
Mr. and Mrs. Larry Smarr
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Smiley
Mr. Lawrence C. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Steven Snapinn
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF GIFTS
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 35
Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Snyder
Ms. Nancy Snyder
Ms. Kelly L. Sohns
Mr. Marshall C. Solem
Mr. Vivek Sriram
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Steele
Mr. Jeffrey T. Steele
Mr. and Mrs. Wesley Steen
Mr. Mark J. Stenson
Steuart W. Weller Elementary School
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon A. Stewart
Mr. Robert Strachan and
Ms. Helen W. Weld
Mr. and Mrs. William M. Street
Dr. Steven A. Strickler
Mr. and Mrs. T. Dennis Sullivan
Ms. Ann Sutton and
Ms. Diane R. Van Yuga
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Sward
Mr. and Mrs. Randolphe P. Swenson
Mr. André Sylvestre and
Ms. Suzanne Pilon
Mr. and Mrs. Grafton P. Tanquary
Dr. Martin Tarlie and
Dr. Cecile Yoon Tarlie
Ed and Gail Taylor
Mr. and Mrs. Roger C. Thies
Mr. and Mrs. Albert N. Thurmond
Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Tonkinson
Mr. Philip E. Trinca and
Ms. Catherine W. Chang
Mr. and Mrs. Eli Turkienicz
Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Ullrich
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Upson
Mrs. Svava K. Valfells
Mr. Brady S. Volpe and
Ms. Mia Colabrese
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Voorheis
Ms. Lavita Wai
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Waibel
Mr. Graham C. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. Bill Walker
Mrs. Chen Chen Wang
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Ward
Mr. and Mrs. Ruedi Wassmer
Ms. Jennifer L. Wasson
Mr. and Mrs. Larry B. Weber
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Weinschel
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Welnick
Judith and Stephen Wertheimer
West Linn High School
Mr. and Mrs. Steven L. Wheeler
Dr. and Mrs. David White
Dr. and Mrs. Gerald Whitman
Mr. Philip Wick and Ms. Jane Cady
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Williams III
Mr. and Mrs. Gary B. Wingate
Mr. Robert Winkelman and
Ms. Judy Loving
Mr. Milton J. Wolfson and
Ms. Patricia Burrows
Mr. and Mrs. Michael E. Woodhouse
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Woodland, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Heinrich Wurm
Mr. and Mrs. Paul L. Wyckoff
Ms. Melissa Wyers
Mr. Benson Yang
Ms. Martha A. Yohe
Mr. and Mrs. Shawn Young
Ms. Mary A. Zadrozny
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL SOCIETY
Anonymous (32)
Mr. Nik Malik Nik Zainal Abidin
Mrs. William B. Alexander V
Anne Allen-Wyman
Mr. David M. Anderson
Jeffrey and Darlene Anderson
Mr. Thomas J. Angle*
Yino Antongiorgi*
Dr. Mitchell Arnone
Mr. Wade H. Atkinson, Jr.
Mr. Robert J. Atwater and
Mrs. Susan Richland
Ms. Janis Augustin
Wallace H. Ayres*
Ms. Miriam Azoubel*
Fritz and Ginger Bachem
Sprague Bartels
Mr. Daniel C. Baxley
Ms. Cathy L. Baynard
Mr. Michel M. Belisle
Mr. James R. Beneyfield
Mr. Owen G. Benthin
Mr. Richard J. Beschi
Mrs. Violette B. Biggins
Ms. Natalie Birk
Robert K. Black and J. Ormond
Sanderson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph A. Bluntschli
Thomas E. Bolger*
Mrs. Dom D. Bonafede
Mrs. Samuel Bookatz
Mr. and Mrs. Darlow G. Botha
Eric Wilson Bowman
Ms. Patricia A. Brandon
Ms. Lee M. Brenneisen
Ms. Anne Brew
Mrs. Andrea R. Brisben
Judith Brown
Ms. Karla J. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Roger B. Brown
Mr. Chris Brucker
Katherine Z. Buehler*
Ms. Jane Burgarella
Drs. Robert and Cynthia Burns
Mrs. Thelma D. Cabaniss
Ms. Julie Cady
Mrs. James F. Calvert
Mr. and Mrs. Murphy Cameron
Mr. James L. Campbell
Ms. Pauline B. Campbell
Rich and Katie Cane
Ms. Diane Carlile
The Carpe Diem Group
Ms. Susan Cayco
Mr. William Chatlos
Mr. Michael J. Chusmir
Ms. Gail S. Cleere
Mr. Lowell Clemons
Richard Coca and Tammie Cortez
Mr. Paul J. Cotugno
Gilbert G. Coville
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Cullen
Ms. Kate Cunningham
James G. Cushman, M.D., F.A.C.S.
Mrs. Genevra Davis
Mr. George F. Davis
Ms. Lorna L. Davis
Shirley R. Deering
Ms. L. C. Devereaux
Elizabeth Diemont
Ms. Renate Doheny-Neuss
Mrs. Ann W. Driver
Mr. Denny Duello
Maxine H. Dunlop*
Mrs. Pauline B. Dunn
Mr. and Mrs. Brian Dunne
Mary Dyer
Trudy Ebert-Gaddess*
Mr. C. Echeverria
Ms. Paula A. Ely
Ms. Nicole M. Engdahl
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest W. Eperjesi
Mr. Kurt F. Ephraim
Mr. William E. Evans
John and Heidi Fahey
Ms. Susan K. Feagin
Bruce and Mary Feay
Ms. Nancy Ferguson
Mr. Paul B. Finegan
Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Finkelstein
Ms. Elise Foladare
Mrs. Helen Formell
Mr. Tom Foster
Mr. and Mrs. Craig Fox
Mr. Harry M. Friedman and
Mrs. Fran Thomas
Jeff and Chanel Friesen
John P. Gardner*
Mrs. Joan E. Garnsey
Mr. Richard G. Glenn
Ms. Linda Grable-Curtis
Mrs. R. L. Green
Drs. Norman and Gilda Greenberg
Mr. Ralph Greenhouse
Susan B. and Bentley C. Gregg
Ms. Alice Grindstaff
The Gilbert M. Grosvenor Family
Baron Groth*
Mr. George F. Hadley
Madeleine Joyce Roberts Hagen
Tom and Char Hand Foundation
Mrs. Edith H. Harcum
Mr. Don D. Harper
Ms. Kimberly L. Harvey
Mrs. Edward A. Hazen
Mr. Alfred A. Hebert, Jr.
Dr. Benjamin S. Hedrick
Christine R. Heidtke
James and Rebecca Helm
Ms. Sylvia S. Hertz
Mr. and Mrs. Gary M. Heymann
Howard and Virginia Hight
Ms. Wendy Hinchliffe
Barbara D. Hitchings (In memory
of Lola Fisher Gast)
Mrs. Rose A. Hoeper
Paul A. Holland*
Mrs. Jane N. Holt
Mrs. Irma Hoornstra*
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
36 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
William Logan Hopkins and
Richard B. Anderson
Sara H. Horsman
Mr. James E. Horton*
Ms. Pauline Hostettler
Lauren Hannan Hudson
Elizabeth Hughes*
Robert H. Hutchinson, M.D. and
Louise A. Hutchinson, M.D.
Mr. Jean-Jacques Illi and
Mrs. Dawn Toepelt
Dr. Cleo E. Jackson
Mr. Jan Jadrosich
Dr. Howard G. Johnson and
Dr. Michal LeVasseur
Ms. Sue D. Johnson
Mr. Leonard H. Jones
Mr. Willie C. Jones, Jr.
Ms. Jean M. Kane
Helga Karker
Douglas Kelbaugh and
Kathleen Nolan
Dermot Kenny
Mrs. Patricia Kiefer
Mr. Carl R. Kilian
Mr. David H. Kinzie
Miss Grace Kirchner
Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Klich
Ms. Liselotte S. Koerner
Ms. Nancy Konkol
Rev. Paul P. Koszarek
Mr. Ivor Kraft
Mr. William G. Kranker
Patricia A. Krause
Mrs. Mary Lane
Mr. Charles Lang
Ms. Evelyn G. Lanzillotta
Mr. Harold W. Laubscher
Mr. David L. Lavalley
David and Rosalie Lawrence
Ms. Deborah Lazerson
Eric A. Lindstrom
Ms. Joan M. Longmire
Mr. Robert Loughridge
Mrs. Barbara L. Lowe
Mr. John P. Ludtke, Sr.
Ms. Zelda R. Mack
Mr. Matthew A. MacTaggart
Ann H. Maier
Mr. Lowell A. Martin
Mr. David J. Mason
Ms. Myrtle F. Mathews
Matyas Family Living Trust*
Mr. John B. McCallister
Mrs. Ardis E. McCarthy
Mr. William R. McCarty, Jr.
Mr. Timothy W. McCormick and
Mr. Jeff Brizzi
Mr. and Mrs. Kevin McLaughlin
Mrs. Katherine Medlinger
Mr. John V. Meeks
Mrs. Linda L. Melvin
Mr. Martin Michael and
Mrs. Penny A. Michael
Mr. and Mrs. Ron H. Michael
Mrs. Muriel Miller
Patricia I. Minnick
R. C. Mitchell
Mr. Khashayar Momeni
Mr. Michael Monroe, C.M.M.
Debra L. Monticciolo and
Bruce Griffing
Mr. James B. Moore
Ralph Morgese*
Ms. Linda Jasmine Moscona
Mr. Charles H. Moss
Stacy and Marc Murison
Mr. Davis Musser II
Mrs. Irene M. Myers
Dr. Theodore and
Mrs. Monica Nicholas
Mr. William Niegel
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond H. Nies
Mr. Manuel P. Nonong, Jr.
Dr. Pieter Noomen
The Patrick F. Noonan Family
Mr. Timothy J. O'Connor
Mr. Don E. Odell
Mrs. Maria Olsen
Ms. Jean Osbon
Rebecca L. Papke
Ms. Sabina Parks
Mr. Chetan M. Patel
Mr. James E. Patton
Mr. Peter R. Patzig
William R. Pennington*
Paul C. and June D. Perritt
Brit Aabakken Peterson*
Mr. James M. Peterson
Ms. Jean A. Peyrat
Mr. Long Van Phan
Ms. Nancy C. Phillips
Steven J. Piazza and Lori L. Dietrich
Mrs. Dorothy E. Pollak
Jane M. Protzman
Mr. and Mrs. Larry J. Purcey
Dr. Carolyn S. Quinn
Mr. and Mrs. William Radock
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Ramey
Nathaniel P. Reed
Nadir and Nancy Rehman
Patty and Rick Reis
Florence L. Resnikoff
Mike Rex and Joanne
Neugebauer-Rex
Mrs. Robert F. Rick
Mr. Lucien Rico
Rozanne L. Ridgway
Mr. Murray Robinson
Ms. Laurel A. Rohrer
Jocelyn R. Roy
Mr. Raphail Rubinov
Mr. Bill Rugoff
Mr. and Mrs. David Salo
Ms. Rosemary Ann Sater
Ms. Ruth C. Scanlon
Mr. Bruce Schmidt and
Ms. Lara J. Chapel
J. G. Schmidt
Dr. and Mrs. Charles M. Schoman
Mr. and Mrs. Pierre B. Scott
Sharon S. Scotti*
Mr. Errol Sehnke
Ms. Cecilia Sophie Sestak
Mr. Earl Shallow
Mr. Douglas R. Shane
Mrs. Joan L. Shapiro
Mrs. Norma Gudin Shaw
Ms. Susan Shillinglaw
Dr. and Mrs. J. Paul Shively
M. Sickels, Ph.D.
Ms. Francoise J. Smith
Janine M. Smith
Mr. Robert H. Spaulding and
Dr. Estelle I. Yamaki
Mr. and Mrs. John and Shirley Spinelli
Mr. Peter Spinner
Florence C. Stanley
Mr. Lyman S. Stanton
Mr. James L. Starkey
Mr. Jeff Strobel
Thomas H. Stutzman
Mr. Craig A. Summers
Lois B. Sweet*
Mr. Warren D. Swingle
Mr. and Mrs. R.W. Tanner
Mr. Simon Taylor
Wayne Franklin Temple
Ms. Wendy Thomas
Mrs. Muriel Thompson
Mrs. Anna M. Tossey
Ulrich Family Trust*
Ms. Beverly A. M. Valentine
Mr. Ryan Valz
Mrs. Natasha J.M.C. van Bentum
Mrs. Catherine van Haelewyn
John-Joseph van Haelewyn
Mr. and Mrs. William Waddington
Mr. Robert H. Walden
Mr. Andre Walton
Missy and Seth Warfield
Donna and Garry Weber
Ms. Mildred A. Wehrly
Mr. Paul E. Wellington
Constance V. R. White
Mr. Donald L. Willens*
Mr. Fred Williams
Mr. Jon Williams
Dr. and Mrs. John R. Winters
Mrs. Rosemary J. Keates Witty
Mr. Bruce Wolf
Mrs. Diane B. Wood-Miller
Dr. Amy B. Worell
Mrs. Anne R. Worrell
Frank R. Wraspir
Mr. David W. Wright
Ms. Ritsuko Yamaji
Mr. Ray S. Yparraguirre
Henri and Melanie Zajic
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome C. Zajic
IN-KIND GIFTS
Fairmont Miramar Hotel & Bungalows
The Fairmont Olympic Hotel
The Fairmont Royal York
Southwest Airlines
*Deceased
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF GIFTS
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 37
A Message from Chief Financial Officer Tracie Winbigler
National Geographic's award-winning magazines, books, and other
mission-focused programs and activities educated, inspired, and engaged
millions of people worldwide. Highlights included our children's books
program which significantly broadened its reach to young readers, and our
travel expeditions, which brought more travelers together than ever be-
fore with our grantees and experts. New interactive exhibits were created,
introducing museumgoers to National Geographic at our own museum in
Washington, D.C., as well as at partner museums worldwide. Our geography
education programs developed exciting new curricula and teacher training
programs designed to equip students to make decisions based on a global
understanding of how people and places are connected.
In 2012, membership dues and contributions continued to play a vital role
in providing support for our programs. National Geographic's net assets
remained strong as our exciting transition toward a digital future accelerated.
Investment income, including market gains, yielded strong results, and
endowment assets continued to grow. Both the National Geographic Educa-
tion Foundation and the Fund for Exploration Endowments--made possible
through generous donor contributions--funded robust education, conser-
vation, exploration, and research grant programs worldwide.
As we look to the future, we are increasingly focused on diversifying our
cash resources to support our important mission. In the coming year, you
will be hearing more about our plans for creating long-term support for our
education, exploration, and media programs, as well as enhancements to
the public spaces that bring the National Geographic experience to our loyal
readers and supporters.
FINANCIAL
38 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY
SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF ACTIVITIES
(in thousands)
2012 2011
Support
Membership dues $ 125,410 $ 132,465
Magazine and book publishing 173,643 178,296
Other educational programs 117,668 111,799
Contributions 15,035 21,893
Federal grants 2,594 1,611
Dividend and interest income, net of fees 10,618 11,505
Total Support 444,968 457,569
Expenses
Magazines, book publishing and other programs 356,556 358,160
Educational grants and community outreach 47,943 49,404
Scientific research and exploration 13,121 15,862
Program Expenses 417,620 423,426
Management and general 33,053 34,010
Fundraising 6,202 6,793
Total Expenses 456,875 464,229
Operating Income (11,907) (6,660)
Other changes in net assets* 32,064 (50,822)
Change in Net Assets $ 20,157 $ (57,482)
*Other changes in net assets primarily consist of realized and unrealized
investment gains and other pension and postretirement expenses.
TOTAL EXPENSES
GRANTS, EXPLORATION,
AND OUTREACH
Publishing and
other programs
78%
Grants,
exploration,
and outreach
14%
Management
and general
7%
Fundraising
1%
Explorer
media
11%
Science,
conservation, and
exploration grants
44%
Exhibitions
and events
22%
Geo-education
programs
23%
2012 ANNUAL REPORT 39
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
(in thousands)
2012 2011
Cash and cash equivalents $ 12,845 $ 9,806
Accounts receivable, net 266,142 305,466
Contributions receivable, net 12,016 12,758
Inventories, net 18,681 21,862
Deferred expenses and other 21,139 22,657
Investments 834,833 820,136
Property and equipment, net 61,548 58,069
Total Assets $ 1,227,204 $ 1,250,754
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 53,872 $ 65,485
Deferred revenue 152,280 159,555
Pension and postretirement benefits 243,186 222,916
Debt 24,942 71,161
Other 8,256 7,126
Total Liabilities 482,536 526,243
Unrestricted 622,543 614,688
Temporarily restricted 45,507 36,020
Permanently restricted 76,618 73,803
Total Net Assets 744,668 724,511
Total Liabilities and Net Assets $ 1,227,204 $ 1,250,754
CONTRIBUTIONS BY DONOR TYPE ENDOWMENT INVESTMENT BALANCES*
Individual
46%
Corporate
20%
Foundation and
government
34%
2008
50
100
150
200
250
Millions of
dollars
Education Foundation
Exploration Fund
2009 2010 2011 2012
*including management funds
CLICK HERE TO
SUPPORT EXPLORATION
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC'S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
At National Geographic, we integrate sustainability into the core
of our culture and operations. As we have done since 2009, in 2012
we purchased wind-power renewable-energy credits to meet all of
the Society's electrical needs in all of its facilities in North America.
We also purchased certified offsets for the carbon emissions of travel
booked through National Geographic Expeditions (educational excur-
sion travel), and we implemented building upgrades that resulted
in Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design for Existing
Buildings (LEED EB) gold recertification and Energy Star recertifica-
tion for 2012 from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for our
buildings. In the next two to four years, our target is to reduce our
electrical use by 10 percent, our water use by 10 percent, our landfill
waste by 25 percent, and the greenhouse gases emitted on our
behalf by our suppliers and vendors by 5 percent.
PHOTO CREDITS
Cover: Paul Nicklen
Contents page: Red Bull
Page 2 (clockwise from upper left): Brian Skerry; Carsten Peter;
Carsten Peter; NASA; NASA; Marco Grob; Robert E. Peary
Pages 6-7: Red Bull
Page 8: Simone Moro
Page 9: Mark Thiessen, NGM staff
Page 10: Justin Guariglia (main photo and bottom right);
Michael Yamashita (top right)
Page 11: Enric Sala
Page 14: Karine Aigner
Page 15: Kevin Fitzpatrick (top); Karine Aigner (bottom)
Page 16: Mauricio Handler
Page 17: Marco Grob
Page 18: CT Ticknor, Lindblad Expeditions
Page 19: Rebecca Hale, NGM staff
Page 20: Tim Laman
Page 21: Barrett & MacKay, All Canada Photos/Corbis (top photo);
Kevin Schafer, Corbis (bottom left); Kira Ivanoff (bottom right)
Page 22: Frans Lanting (main photo and bottom right);
Beverly Joubert (top right)
Page 23: Alvin Teng
Page 24: Brent Stirton
Page 25: David Evans (main photo and top right);
Lindsay Maiorana (bottom right)
Pages 26: Cory Richards
WRITING & EDITING
Caroline Braun
Carrie Hutchison
Leah Kalinosky
Ann Maier
Blakeley Sisk
DESIGN
Sandi Owatverot-Nuzzo
PHOTO EDITOR
Adrian Coakley
GRAPHICS
John Tomanio
Daniela Santamarina
PRODUCTION
Betty Clayman-DeAtley
RIGHTS CLEARANCE
Carol King Woodward
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 2012-13
John Fahey, Chairman and CEO
Washington, DC
Gilbert M. Grosvenor,
Chairman Emeritus
Hume, VA
Wanda M. Austin
El Segundo, CA
Michael R. Bonsignore
Montecito, CA
Jean N. Case
Washington, DC
Alexandra Grosvenor Eller
Salt Lake City, UT
Roger A. Enrico
Dallas, TX
Daniel S. Goldin
San Diego, CA
William R. Harvey
Hampton, VA
Gary E. Knell
Washington, DC
Maria E. Lagomasino
New York, NY
Nigel Morris
Alexandria, VA
George Muñoz
Arlington, VA
Reg Murphy
Sea Island, GA
Patrick F. Noonan
Chevy Chase, MD
Peter H. Raven
St. Louis, MO
Edward P. Roski, Jr.
North Hollywood, CA
James R. Sasser
Washington, DC
B. Francis Saul II
Chevy Chase, MD
Gerd Schulte-Hillen
Hamburg, Germany
Ted Waitt
La Jolla, CA
Tracy R. Wolstencroft
New York, NY
GIVE ONLINE
Fast, simple, and secure. Any size gift can be
made online at nationalgeographic.org/donate.
You will receive an email confirmation and
a mailed receipt.
GIVE BY MAIL
Send a check in any amount to:
National Geographic Society
Development Office
1145 17th Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036-4688
U.S.A.
For more information on giving levels and
specialty groups, please call (202) 862-8638
or (800) 373-1717.
nationalgeographic.org
