national
fish and wildlife
foundation
2014 annual report
1
As the nation's largest conservation funder,
the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation
supports projects across the United States and
abroad to sustain, restore and enhance our
nation's fish, wildlife and natural resources.
For more than three decades, NFWF has
advanced this mission with the support of
our many partners, including federal and
state agencies, corporations, foundations and
individual donors. The Foundation focuses
on using the best available science to deliver
measurable, long-term results. Each day,
NFWF works to protect and restore imperiled
species, promote healthy oceans and estuaries,
improve working landscapes for wildlife,
advance sustainable fisheries and conserve water
for wildlife and people. In the following pages,
we share a few examples of our work from 2014.
Front cover: American oystercatcher
Back cover: Pacific walrus
As the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) begins its fourth decade of building
conservation partnerships between government and private-sector partners, our impact has
never been greater. This year, we surpassed 14,000 projects funded since our founding in
1984, and we surpassed $2.9 billion in total conservation impact.
Our accomplishments over the past year demonstrate that NFWF is leading the way
in preserving and protecting our nation's habitats and species. Several significant endeavors
from 2014 deserve special recognition. Within the first 18 months of establishing the Gulf
Environmental Benefit Fund, NFWF announced its initial project investments from the
Gulf Fund, awarding over $290 million to 25 conservation projects in Alabama, Florida,
Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. These projects continue to catalyze a regional recovery
effort following the catastrophic 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
The Foundation also began implementation of the U.S. Department of the Interior's
Hurricane Sandy Coastal Resiliency Competitive Grant Program. Projects funded through
this innovative program reduce communities' vulnerability to growing risks from coastal
storms, flooding and erosion by strengthening natural ecosystems that also benefit fish and
wildlife--also known as resilience investing. On June 16, 2014, Interior Secretary Sally
Jewell announced the award of 54 grants totaling almost $103 million. Grantees committed
more than $72 million in additional funding and in-kind contributions, bringing the total
conservation investment to more than $175 million in coastal resilience.
In fiscal year 2014,NFWF funded more than 800 conservation projects across the nation,
obligating $166 million in federal funds and $3.4 million in other public funds,$23 million in
private contributions, and leveraging $172 million in grantee match, including the Hurricane
Sandy projects. In addition, including the Gulf Fund, the Foundation awarded $304 million
in Impact-Directed Environmental Accounts funds. In total, NFWF generated more than
$668 million in on-the-ground conservation impact.
NFWF also supported the launch of a new youth initiative at the Department of the
Interior, the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps, to help develop the next generation
of conservation stewards while also providing work experience to young adults. In addition to
our support for the Department of the Interior, NFWF worked closely with the Department
of Agriculture, as well as private landowners, to begin implementation of the new Farm Bill.
Passed in 2014, the legislation includes strong conservation measures for working farmers,
ranchers and foresters that will enable economic growth while conserving natural habitats
and protecting fish and wildlife for future generations.
As we look to the future, NFWF will continue to lead the way in forming lasting
partnerships that benefit local communities, habitats, wildlife and the nation as a whole.
Our vision remains as strong and vital as it was three decades ago, when the Foundation was
chartered by Congress--to preserve and protect our nation's natural treasures.
John V. Faraci, Jr.
CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF DIRECTORS, NFWF
3
N A T I O N A L F I S H A N D W I L D L I F E F O U N D A T I O N
"the national fish and wildlife foundation
will continue to lead the way in
forming lasting partnerships that benefit
local communities, habitats, wildlife
and the nation as a whole."
chairman's message
John V. Faraci, Jr.
5
In 2014, NFWF joined with the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, The Nature
Conservancy,The Conservation Fund and other partners to announce a stunning conservation
achievement--the acquisition of the Powderhorn Ranch, a 17,351-acre ecological treasure
on the Texas coast.
The ranch includes more than 11 miles of tidal bay front that provide important nursery
habitat for shrimp, crabs and fish.Thousands of acres of tidal marshes, bayous and freshwater
potholes support a variety of waterfowl and wading birds,including the endangered whooping
crane. Quail, raptors and a range of big-game species inhabit the interior of the ranch, while a
relatively mature live-oak forest along the banks of Matagorda Bay provides critical "fall-out"
habitat for untold numbers of migratory songbirds crossing the Gulf of Mexico each spring.
"It's one of those last fabled ranches on the coast, and one of Mother Nature's finest
creations, as far as I'm concerned," says Carter Smith, executive director of the Texas Parks
and Wildlife Department. "Within its confines, you get all the representative habitats and
communities, both plant and animal, which reflect the entirety of that coastal landscape. In
smaller, fragmented, isolated parcels, you don't see that."
The property,which was in danger of being developed,now adds to a mosaic of protected
coastal lands between Galveston and Corpus Christi that includes the Aransas National
Wildlife Refuge and Matagorda Island Wildlife Management Area.
NFWF is providing $34.5 million over three years through the Gulf Environmental
Benefit Fund (GEBF) for the acquisition of the ranch, which eventually will be operated as
a state park and wildlife management area. The Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation has
committed to raise matching funds to complete the $50 million project, which includes
habitat restoration and a long-term stewardship endowment.
In 2013, a U.S. District Court approved two plea agreements resolving certain criminal
charges against BP andTransocean which arose from the 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion
and oil spill. The agreements direct a total of $2.544 billion to NFWF to fund projects
benefiting the natural resources of the Gulf Coast that were impacted by the spill.
Empowered by the GEBF and other funding sources related to the oil spill, conservation
communities in Texas and four other Gulf Coast states already have begun tackling once-
in-a-lifetime conservation projects to protect, enhance and sustain some of the nation's most
important coastal ecosystems.
"You can be more far-sighted, take some risks and realize some dreams you never
otherwise would," Smith says.
c o n s e r v i n g
landscapes
on the Gulf Coast
P O W D E R H O R N R A N C H
Whooping crane
Powderhorn Ranch
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R S
The Gulf Environmental Benefit Fund was established in 2013 to fund projects benefiting the natural resources
of the Gulf Coast that were impacted by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
The permanent conservation
of the Powderhorn Ranch adds
more than 17,000 acres of native
tallgrass prairies, tidal bay fronts,
bayous and freshwater pothole
ponds to a mosaic of already
protected lands along the Gulf
Coast in Texas. The acquisition
of the ranch directly benefits a
wide array of coastal fish and
wildlife, including endangered
whooping cranes.
Existing wildlife areas
Powderhorn Ranch
gulf
of
mexico
texas
7
In the stately longleaf pine forests of the Southeast, fire can be as ecologically important as
water and sunshine.
The absence of fire--along with urbanization, fragmentation of large tracts of forested
land and other factors--has contributed to a precipitous decline of this unique habitat.
Longleaf pine once dominated the Southeast, covering more than 90 million acres from
Virginia to Texas. Today, less than four percent of our original longleaf forests remain, and
longleaf-dependent species such as the indigo snake, red-cockaded woodpecker and gopher
tortoise face an uncertain future.
For over a decade, NFWF and its funding partners have worked to restore and enhance
more than 520,000 acres of longleaf forest on public and private lands.
These collaborative efforts across the Southeast continue to fuel a renaissance for longleaf
conservation. Many private landowners and timber operators have learned the best practices
for managing longleaf stands,and thanks to widespread outreach efforts,many residents living
near these working forests understand that prescribed burning is not just a conservation tool,
but also an important safeguard against out-of-control wildfires.
In 2014, NFWF approved $3.38 million from its Longleaf Stewardship Fund to benefit
another 127,800 acres. One of the grants awarded last year enabled private landowners in
North Carolina's Cape Fear Arch region to begin planting 1,200 acres of longleaf seedlings
and enhancing 8,000 acres of existing longleaf forest, a process that includes prescribed
burning and restoration of native wiregrass understory.
NFWF funding ensures that such landowners receive vital support for safe, effective and
necessary prescribed burning.
"Without fire, encroaching hardwood trees and shrubs would outgrow and shade out
the natural understory," says The Nature Conservancy's Dan Ryan, who is managing the
Cape Fear Arch project."Longleaf seeds also need bare mineral soil to germinate. So without
fire, you'd completely lose the longleaf tree, and then you'd lose all the biodiversity of the
longleaf ecosystem."
NFWF also announced in late 2014 that Walmart's Acres for America conservation
program had awarded a $1 million grant to the Coastal Headwaters Forest project in Alabama
and Florida. Unfolding across 205,000 acres and leveraging another $20 million in matching
contributions, this massive longleaf restoration effort is expected to become the largest ever
undertaken on private lands.
L O N G L E A F P I N E
w h e n
fire fuels
a forest
Gopher tortoise
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R S
Natural Resources Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
U.S. Forest Service, International Paper, Southern Company and Walmart.
Unique to the southeastern United
States, the longleaf pine ecosystem
contains a stunning diversity of
plants and animals, including rare
and endangered wildlife such as
the indigo snake, red-cockaded
woodpecker and gopher tortoise.
Prescribed burns are a key tool
for conserving and expanding
the remaining stands of longleaf,
many of which are located in the
"significant geographic areas"
shown on this map.
Longleaf Pine Historical Range
Significant Geographic Areas
2014 Grant Awards
atlantic
oc
ean
gulf of mexico
9
Pummeled by storms and facing increasing threats from sea-level rise, small towns, big cities
and state and federal agencies along the East Coast have rallied behind the need for greater
coastal resiliency.
Most community planners and leaders now recognize that restoring and protecting
marshes, barrier islands and other coastal habitats isn't just an ecological imperative--these
dwindling natural landscapes also help shield people and property from the worst Mother
Nature has to offer.
Hurricane Sandy drove home the point in October 2012, devastating much of the
Northeast and causing billions of dollars in damage. Without natural systems such as living
shorelines, marshes and protected lands to soak up the fury and flooding of storms, urban
coastlines suffered catastrophic damage.
In 2014, the U.S. Department of the Interior and NFWF announced the award of
54 grants totaling nearly $103 million. These funds are being used to strengthen natural
ecosystems in order to protect communities and reduce their vulnerability to future storm
events, and to enhance habitats critical to fish and wildlife. The Hurricane Sandy Coastal
Resiliency Competitive Grant program also generated more than $72 million in additional
funding and in-kind contributions, bringing the total conservation investment to more than
$175 million.
"It's all part of the framework that's coming out of the Sandy recovery effort,this emphasis
on sustainability, on green versus gray infrastructure," says Scott Smith, senior design and
construction project manager for the city of Norfolk, Va.
City officials there are using a $4.6 million grant to create a green infrastructure planning
framework, design and install eight shoreline restoration projects and implement a training
program for veterans and students considering careers in the burgeoning green-infrastructure
industry.
"We're very cognizant of sea-level change, and we need to implement practices that are
adaptable and sustainable in the long-term. It's an incremental approach, rather than one
big sweeping change. Many small steps are making the difference. Everybody's efforts are
starting to bear fruit, and this large influx of projects will tip it in the right direction."
The Hurricane Sandy Coastal Resiliency Competitive Grant program,benefiting more than
210 communities from Virginia to Rhode Island,is expected to engage more than 8,700 young
people, veterans and volunteers. Work already has begun to reduce more than 216 million
gallons of stormwater runoff, decreasing flooding and pollution in urban communities. Other
projects will restore more than 6,800 acres of wetlands, marshes and dune systems that will
buffer communities from storms and enhance fish and wildlife habitats.
H U R R I C A N E S A N D Y R E C O V E R Y
s t r e n g t h e n i n g
resilience
on the coast
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R S
U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. District Courts of Delaware and New Jersey, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and William Penn Foundation
Dowitchers
Horseshoe crabs
11
The Chesapeake Bay once held enough oysters to filter its entire volume of water in a matter
of days.Vast expanses of oyster reefs teemed with hundreds of species of crustaceans, fish and
birds that rely on the keystone shellfish at some point in their life cycles.
Today, after centuries of over-harvesting,disease,siltation and diminishing water quality,
the Bay's oyster population stands at a paltry two percent of its historic level.
In late 2013,NFWF joined with CSX,one of the nation's leading transportation suppliers,
and the state of Maryland to launch the "CSX Oyster Express."This innovative,public-private
partnership became a key component of the largest oyster restoration project ever undertaken
in the Chesapeake Bay and one of the largest projects of its kind in the nation.
The CSX Oyster Express helped solve one of the biggest challenges presented by oyster
restoration projects of this scale: securing and covering the cost of transporting enormous
amounts of suitable substrate upon which young oysters,or spat,can attach and thrive.Working
with NFWF, CSX provided an in-kind investment valued at approximately $2.4 million to
ship the oyster shell on the Oyster Express.
Throughout 2014, CSX trains carried fossilized oyster shell from a quarry in Florida's
Panhandle to the Port of Baltimore once every 10 to 14 days. By the end of the program, the
CSX Oyster Express took 22 round trips carrying about 125,000 cubic yards of 3-million-
year-old shell, enough to cover 80 football fields with shell 12 inches deep.
Other project partners took over from there, carrying the prehistoric shell on more than
40 barge trips to specially selected portions of Harris Creek and other locations on Maryland's
Eastern Shore. Now resting on the bottom, the ancient shell serves as a foundation for
hundreds of acres of new oyster reefs, some already loaded with oyster spat.
Throughout the summer of 2014, teams from the University of Maryland Center for
Environmental Science and the Oyster Recovery Partnership planted more than 500 million
spat at the new reefs.
"The goal is to plant even more next summer, possibly as many as 1.5 billion,"
says Michael Naylor, shellfish program director for the Maryland Department of Natural
Resources­Fisheries Service.
The young oysters were cultivated at the University of Maryland's Horn Point Laboratory,
one of the largest oyster hatcheries on the East Coast. In addition to the $2.4 million in-kind
contribution from CSX, since 2000, the Chesapeake Bay Stewardship Fund has provided
$3 million to support oyster restoration projects to filter polluted water and create essential
fish habitat.
C S X O Y S T E R E X P R E S S
r e p l e n i s h i n g
oysters
in the Chesapeake Bay
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R S
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, CSX, Oyster Recovery Partnership and the University of Maryland
CSX Oyster Express
Striped blenny
Placing fossilized shell
Throughout 2014, the
CSX Oyster Express carried
125,000 cubic yards of fossilized
oyster shell from a quarry in
Florida's Panhandle to the Port of
Baltimore, where the shells were
transferred to barges and carried
to sanctuaries on Maryland's
Eastern Shore. Once in place, the
shells provide a habitat where
young oysters, fish, crabs and
other species can thrive.
Port of Baltimore
Harris Creek
chesapeake bay
atlantic ocean
CSX train from Florida
13
Fewer salmon in Alaska's Yukon­Kuskokwim Delta doesn't just mean less food for the
Yup'ik people.
Trouble in the fishery can lead to a loss of culture. Elders mourn the decline of cherished
traditions and key fishing skills. Families spend less time together catching and preparing
fish. Activity wanes at long-standing fish camps throughout the delta.
"We have 32 villages along the Kuskokwim, and the majority of those are situated right
on the river," says Gene Peltola Jr., assistant regional director for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service's (FWS) Office of Subsistence Management. "The whole culture, the whole society
is based on the river, and salmon are a major component of that."
Unfortunately, recent declines in Chinook salmon abundance have forced the Yup'ik
people to contend with fishing closures,gear restrictions and confusion over regulation changes.
In 2014, NFWF and FWS boosted an effort to restore salmon populations in the delta
and bridge the gap between native communities and the often complicated world of fisheries
management.
The Refuge Information Technician program, part of a $1 million, multi-year project
supported by NFWF's Alaska Fish and Wildlife Fund, helps young Alaska natives launch
careers focused on restoring and managing the salmon fishery that means so much to their
own families and communities.
Young techs hired through the program visit villages throughout the Yukon Delta
National Wildlife Refuge, communicating federal policies to residents and gathering the
public's concerns to share with fisheries managers. The techs bring regional experience,
traditional ecological knowledge, Yup'ik language skills and cultural sensitivity to their role
as intermediaries.These tribal consultations also shed light on conservation matters beyond
the salmon fishery, including the subsistence harvest of waterfowl and the reintroduction
of Steller's eiders.
NFWF and its funding partners also support summer internships through the Alaska
Native Science and Engineering Program,which trains young Alaska natives to be competitive
in science. Many of these students attend the University of Alaska and complete research
internships with FWS, where they gain field experience working with federal biologists.
Together, these refuge techs and interns serve as trusted and valuable sources of infor
mation for their communities and natural resource managers. In time, many of these young
resource managers might even lead local efforts to enhance and sustain the salmon populations
so critical to life along the Kuskokwim and Yukon rivers.
Y U K O N ­ K U S K O K W I M D E LT A
c o n s e r v i n g
salmon
and preserving culture
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R S
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Donlin Gold LLC, The Moore Charitable Trust, NOVAGOLD RESOURCES INC. and The Rasmuson Foundation
Yup'ik woman with salmon
Chinook salmon
NFWF's Alaska Fish and
Wildlife Fund helps young
Alaska natives launch
careers focused on restoring
and managing the salmon
fishery that means so
much to their families and
communities in and around
the Yukon Delta National
Wildlife Refuge.
Yukon Delta Refuge
bering sea
kuskokwim bay
yukon
riv
er
ku
skokw
im
river
15
The Walker River flows through the high desert of Nevada, carrying precious water through
the rain shadow of the Sierra. In an area that sees an average of five inches of precipitation
per year, every drop counts.
The river delivers precious freshwater to Walker Lake, one of the West's most imperiled
bodies of water. Once home to vibrant populations of now-threatened Lahontan cutthroat
trout,the desert terminal lake has lost about 80 percent of its volume and dropped in elevation
by nearly 150 feet.Increasing salinity has led to unprecedented losses of native fish and wildlife.
Long before reaching the troubled lake,the Walker River flows as two forks.One of those,
the East Walker River, winds through a 3,000-acre former sheep ranch called Rafter 7. Along
this stretch, the stream supports populations of rainbow trout, brown trout and mountain
whitefish. Rare, pristine riparian habitats line both sides of the river for about 11 miles.
Preserving and protecting the river and surrounding habitats at places like Rafter 7,
acquired in 2013 with funding through NFWF, represents a key component of the Walker
Basin Restoration Program, which was established by Congress in October 2009 to restore
and maintain the lake.
NFWF works with local communities,water managers,tribes,public agencies and private
owners who voluntarily participate in the program to increase the flow of freshwater into
Walker Lake. Thus far, the foundation has overseen the acquisition of nearly $50 million
in land and water assets throughout the basin, and has awarded more than $17 million for
associated research and stewardship initiatives that maximize conservation values while
avoiding or mitigating negative impacts to communities and agricultural users.
At Rafter 7, land managers are returning the retired ranch to a more natural state, while
enhancing the river's flow. Reduced grazing, replanting of native vegetation and installation
of efficient irrigation systems are helping to add water to the river and benefit wildlife such
as pronghorn, mule deer and quail.
Project leaders also worked behind the scenes to set the stage for eventual public access
to the ranch's riverbanks,a prospect sure to entice fly-fishing aficionados throughout the West
who yearn to explore virtually untouched waters.
NFWF's work at Rafter 7 and elsewhere in the region builds on more than a decade of
success
ful water transaction experience throughout the West,where intense demand for water
and drought jeopardize the health of rivers, streams, lakes and the associated communities
of fish and wildlife.
From the Columbia River Basin and the rivers and wetlands of California to the Rio
Grande,Klamath River Basin and Colorado River, NFWF's Western Water Program is using
market-based tools to achieve lasting conservation outcomes at landscape scales.
W A L K E R R I V E R B A S I N
p r o t e c t i n g
freshwater
flow and riparian habitats
Lahontan cutthroat trout
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R S
U.S. Department of the Interior's Bureau of Reclamation
East Walker River
nevada
walker
lake
california
A terminal lake such as
Walker Lake is formed
at the end point of an
enclosed watershed basin.
These lakes have no outlets
and, therefore, are greatly
affected by variations in
inflow caused by upstream
diversions of surface
water, groundwater
pumping, and changes in
the hydrologic cycle.
Rafter 7 Ranch
w. walk
er
river
e.
w
alker river
w
alker river
17
Acres for America, an historic conservation collaboration between Walmart and NFWF,
continued its important work in 2014 to protect and enhance natural resources around
the nation.
In addition to conserving critical habitats for birds, fish, plants and wildlife, recent Acres
for America projects provide access for people to enjoy the outdoors and are helping the future
of rural economies that depend on forestry, ranching and recreation.
Such was the case in Oregon,where a $500,000 Acres grant helped the Rocky Mountain
Elk Foundation complete a $6.9 million acquisition of private lands that permanently protected
the headwaters of the John Day River, one of the most wild and scenic rivers in the Pacific
Northwest.
The timberland properties, situated in a checkerboard pattern and in danger of being
developed for cabins and permanent residences,now serve as a crucial,unified wildlife corridor
between already-protected wilderness areas.
This swath of more than 40 miles of public land is home to an extraordinary community
of wild animals.Elk,mule deer,pronghorn,mountain goats,black bear,cougars,wolverines and
martens all traverse this mountainous, forested landscape, often moving from summer ranges
at higher elevations to winter ranges below. The mix of old-growth forest and regenerating
timbered land provide permanent and temporary hospices to mountain quail, great grey owls,
northern goshawks, woodpeckers and a host of neotropical songbirds.
The 35 miles of streams protected by the John Day Headwaters project also supply cold,
clean water that sustains rare and vital spawning and rearing habitats for various threatened
fish species such as redband rainbow trout,Chinook salmon,steelhead,and Pacific lamprey--
a species with cultural significance to some Native Americans.
The NFWF-supported project also benefits people by opening these lands up for a
variety of recreational opportunities, including birding, camping, hiking, mountain biking,
fishing and hunting.
A C R E S F O R A M E R I C A
p r e s e r v i n g
critical habitats
across the nation
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R
Walmart
Wolverine
John Day River
19
Just a few years ago, the future looked bleak for the American oystercatcher.
The charismatic shorebird with a red-orange beak and striking, red-rimmed yellow eyes
was once fairly common along the Eastern Seaboard.But by 2008,less than 11,000 remained,
scattered along the shore between Maine and Texas. Biologists were projecting a 12-percent
drop in oystercatcher numbers over 10 years.
Coastal development, human disturbance and predation at nesting sites had taken a toll.
More threats loomed, including sea-level rise and contamination of the species' primary food
source, its namesake shellfish.
"They were not quite on the brink of extinction, but they were heading that way," says
Shiloh Schulte,an expert on the species with the Manomet Center for Conservation Sciences.
A scattershot approach to conservation wasn't working.The plight of the oystercatcher
called out for a new approach, one that could reach across state lines, link local efforts over
the long term and focus on measurable outcomes.
In response to these needs NFWF launched a 10-year business plan in 2008 to increase
the population of oyster
catchers by 30 percent
--
a 42 percent marginal increase over
population levels if nothing was done.The hoped-for bonus: Improved coastal habitats and
more shorebirds of all kinds.
Project leaders with Manomet, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National
Audubon Society enacted the plan in small towns, big cities and remote barrier islands from
the Northeast to the Gulf Coast. Biologists and volunteers relocated nests imperiled by high
tides, restored beach habitats damaged by storms and re-established oyster beds. They also
installed fencing at high-density nesting sites, where just a few smart predators can decimate
an entire generation of birds.
In 2014, just six years into the ambitious initiative, biologists delivered the welcome
news that the latest estimates show a 10 percent rise in American oystercatcher population--
a huge swing from the predicted declines.
In fact, the North American Bird Conservation Initiative's State of the Birds 2014 report
highlights the NFWF-led oystercatcher project as a bright spot in shorebird conservation.
"NFWF investments in priority action areas have already stopped a regional decline of
American Oystercatchers and increased reproductive success," the report notes. "Now the
population is growing for the first time in 10 years."
A M E R I C A N O Y S T E R C A T C H E R
l o n g - t e r m
investments
reverse population decline
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R S
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
NFWF supports and helps
coordinate the efforts of
more than 35 conservation
partners working at key
oystercatcher habitats
along the East Coast.
NFWF project areas
atlantic ocean
American oystercatcher
21
To the casual observer, it may seem that most conservation projects focus on national forests,
state parks and other large swaths of public land.
But many of the country's most important conservation efforts actually unfold far from
the public eye, on private property that makes up two-thirds of the land in the United States.
In 2014, NFWF continued its work with a broad coalition of corporate funding partners,
conservation organizations and other groups to help private landowners across the country
achieve large-scale and lasting conservation outcomes...all while keeping their working
lands working.
New conservation easements protected large tracts of open land from fragmentation and
conversion to non-agricultural uses. Development and implementation of best management
practices boosted productivity of working lands while preserving the mosaic of habitats required
by resident and migrating wildlife.Effective management of water resources helped ensure the
survival of not just plants and animals, but also large and small businesses across the country.
With NFWF support, timber companies in the piney woods of the Southeast improved
logging operations while still maintaining healthy forests and protecting imperiled species.
Crop farmers in the Midwest improved their yields and decreased nutrient loads in local
watersheds while still providing habitats for native pollinators.
Cattle ranchers in the Northern Great Plains--one of the world's last remaining intact
grasslands--strove to boost sustainable beef production while still preserving critical habitat
for grassland birds.
Montana rancher Jim Stone, founder of the Partners for Conservation group, knows
that if private property owners take care of the land, it will take care of them, their families
and their businesses.With NFWF support, Stone and his group continued working in 2014
to help private landowners and partners implement innovative, measurable and effective
conservation practices for the long-term health and productivity of working landscapes and
rural communities across the United States.
"Doing the right thing for the environment doesn't necessarily mean taking a hit on
your bottom line," Stone says."Being a good steward of land and water resources goes hand-
in-hand with being a good rancher and a smart business owner. When it comes right down
to it, what's good for the land is good for the livestock, good for birds and wildlife, good for
people, and good for business."
W O R K I N G L A N D S C A P E S
pr i vat e
landowners
play key role in conservation
C O N T R I B U T I N G P A R T N E R S
Natural Resources Conservation Service, U.S. Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management and Bureau of Reclamation,
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Forest Service, Altria, BNSF Railway, Cargill Foundation,
International Paper, McKnight Foundation, Southern Company, Wells Fargo and William Penn Foundation
Northwestern Nebraska
Sharp-tailed grouse
23
condensed statement of financial position
(In millions of dollars, as of September 30, 2014)
   2014 2013
ASSETS
Cash and Investments $ 1,006.1 $ 676.8
Other Assets 23.7 13.1
Total Assets  $1,029.8 $689.8
LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS
Liabilities 851.4 541.8
Net Assets
 Unrestricted 92.4 89.0
 Restricted 86.0 59.0
Total Liabilities and Net Assets  $1,029.8 $689.8
condensed statement of activ ities
(In millions of dollars, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014)
  Temporarily
 Unrestricted Restricted Total
REVENUES AND SUPPORT
Revenues and Contributions $141.2 $ 49.1 $190.3
Assets Released from Restriction 22.1 (22.1) 0.0
Total Revenues 163.3 27.0 190.3
Total Expenses 159.9 0.0 159.9
Change in Net Assets 3.4 27.0 30.4
Net Assets, beginning of year 89.0 59.0 148.0
Net Assets, end of year $92.4 $ 86.0 $178.4
Program/Mission 94.4%
$150,937,226
Management and General 2.5%
$3,982,694
Non-Federal/Other 65%
$123,887,201
Fundraising 3.1%
$5,017,016
Federal 35%
$66,424,320
TOTAL REVENUE
$190,311,521
2 0 1 4
f i n a nc i a l su m m a r y
TOTAL EXPENSES
$159,936,936
Common yellowthroat
Bobcat
25
24
Coral reef
community-based conservation projects that
provide the ability for community leaders to
protect and restore wildlife and their habitats,
promote job creation, and contribute to the
achievement of local Tribes' cultural and
economic goals.
In 2010, BP joined with NFWF to establish
the Recovered Oil Fund for Wildlife, a program
to support species imperiled by the oil spill in
the Gulf of Mexico. The fund was made
possible with proceeds from BP's share of
net revenue from oil recovered from the
Deepwater Horizon site and continues to
support priority conser
vation projects.
The Coca-Cola Foundation supports the 21st
Century Conservation Service Corps (21CSC)
program, a highly collaborative partnership
of federal agencies and non-profit groups
dedicated to providing service, training,
education, and employment opportunities for
thousands of young Americans and veterans,
including low income and disadvantaged
youth. This partnership protects, restores and
enhances public and tribal lands and waters, as
well as natural, cultural and historic resources.
Most importantly, 21CSC helps develop the
next generation of skilled workers, conservation
professionals and engaged citizens.
The ConocoPhillips SPIRIT of Conservation
Program, launched in 2005, has conserved
threatened birds and their habitats around the
world. It has provided funding for 55 projects
in 12 states and five countries, protecting or
enhancing more than 109,000 acres of priority
bird habitat. The current program is focused on
advancing water, biodiversity, and innovative
conservation projects. ConocoPhillips in Alaska
also has partnered with NFWF since 2003 to
support polar bear research and Cook Inlet
beluga whale conservation projects.
Covanta, working with NFWF, NOAA and
Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc., provides a
no-cost way for fishermen to dispose of old,
derelict or unusable fishing gear through the
Fishing for Energy program. The program works
with state and local agencies, community and
industry groups and local ports to collect and
recycle gear. The remaining waste is converted
into clean, renewable electricity for local
communities at Covanta's Energy-from-Waste
facilities. Since 2008, more than 2.4 million
pounds of marine debris have been collected.
CSX works with NFWF to improve water quality
in the Chesapeake Bay watershed, supporting
projects to restore fish and wildlife habitat,
reduce water pollution and engage the public in
environmental stewardship activities. In 2013,
CSX joined NFWF and the state of Maryland
to implement the largest natural oyster reef
restoration project ever undertaken in the
Chesapeake Bay.
Darden Restaurants works with NFWF and
the Walton Family Foundation to support the
Fishery Improvement Partnership Fund,
which invests in the sustainability of fisheries
that contribute to the U.S. seafood supply.
In 2013, Darden joined NFWF to improve
the environmental and socio-economic
performance of the Honduras spiny
lobster fishery.
Through its partnership with NFWF, Donlin
Gold LLC supports the Alaska Fish and Wildlife
Fund in conserving Alaska's unique fish and
wildlife heritage by building capacity for
natural resources conservation in the Arctic,
Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, and Cook Inlet and
its watershed. The program works with local
partners to improve information, mitigate
threats, and conserve habitats for salmon,
migratory birds, polar bear, walrus, beluga
whale and caribou.
Edison International and NFWF work together
to support the restoration and enhancement of
natural habitats in central, coastal and southern
California. This matching grant program takes
into account community needs and priorities
within Edison International's service area.
Support from Edison International provides
funding to non-profit organizations and
individuals who are conserving and restoring
important habitat on public and private lands.
Through EarthSmart Outreach, FedEx works
with NFWF in U.S. cities to fund urban
conservation projects. With FedEx team
member engagement, the projects restore
watersheds, improve air quality, encourage
environmental stewardship, and foster
community environmental education.
International Paper and NFWF formed the
Forestland Stewards Initiative in 2013 to
identify, restore and protect landscapes in
three priority regions in the United States:
The Carolina Low Country Forests, Cumberland
Plateau of Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky and
Tennessee, and The Piney Woods of Texas and
Louisiana. The goal is to protect and restore
more than 200,000 acres of forests to strengthen
populations of important fish and wildlife and
improve water quality. The initiative also
highlights the critical role working forests play,
especially for the United States where 68
percent of all forests are working forests.
Through its partnership with NFWF, Mitsubishi
Corporation Foundation for the Americas
(MCFA) is helping to recover endangered sea
turtle populations along the Pacific coasts of
Central and South America. MCFA supports
conservation at the community level in
cooperation with regional managers to bolster
sustainable fishing markets and reduce sea
turtle bycatch.
The Alcoa Foundation/NFWF Biodiversity
Initiative, launched in 2013, is dedicated to
strengthening communities by improving the
health of rivers and protecting biodiversity in
landscapes of mutual importance to Alcoa and
NFWF. The program funds on-the-ground
restoration projects that benefit fish and wildlife
habitat and water quality, while contributing to
broader community-based goals.
Through its partnership with NFWF, Altria
is helping to protect and restore some of the
most important ecosystems in the nation,
including the Chesapeake Bay, Cumberland
Plateau and Columbia River. Altria supports
improved water quality by investing in effective
conservation and restoration practices on
agricultural lands, and in urban centers, and
by accelerating implementation of the most
innovative, sustainable, and cost-effective
strategies.
American Eagle Outfitters supports the 21st
Century Conservation Service Corps (21CSC)
program, a highly collaborative public-private
partnership of federal agencies, corporations
and non-profit groups dedicated to providing
service, training, education, and employment
opportunities for thousands of young Americans
and veterans, including low income and
disadvantaged youth. This partnership protects,
restores and enhances public and tribal lands
and waters, as well as natural, cultural and
historic resources. Most importantly, 21CSC
helps develop the next generation of skilled
workers, conservation professionals and
engaged citizens.
ArcelorMittal and NFWF's Sustain Our Great
Lakes program, launched in 2006, supports
collaborative approaches for the restoration of
streams, wetlands and shoreline habitats in the
Great Lakes basin. This partnership has
provided funding for 226 projects, supporting
the restoration of more than 37,000 acres of
high-priority wildlife habitat and the restoration
of fish passage to more than 1,300 stream
miles throughout the region.
Bank of America joined with NFWF in 2013
to support the Five Star and Urban Waters
Restoration Program, which focuses on the
stewardship and restoration of coastal, wetland,
and riparian ecosystems across the country.
The program's goal is to meet the conservation
needs of important species and habitats,
providing measurable and meaningful
conservation and educational outcomes.
Through its partnership with NFWF, Bass Pro
Shops and the Johnny Morris Foundation invest
in conservation activities to restore, protect
and enhance native populations of sensitive or
endangered fish species and their habitats
across the U.S.
In the Great North from North Dakota to
Washington State, BNSF Railway supports two
of NFWF's wildlife programs: Northern Great
Plains and Great Migrations and Crucial
Corridors. The programs strive to maintain the
relatively intact nature of the region by linking
human communities with the benefits of
stewardship activities. Funding directly supports
c o r p o r at e pa r t n e r s
Through their philanthropic support of NFWF, these corporations increase the resources available for vital conservation projects
across the United States. We salute our partners for their generosity and commitment.
26
Through its partnership with NFWF,
NOVAGOLD RESOURCES INC. supports the
Alaska Fish and Wildlife Fund in conserving
Alaska's unique fish and wildlife heritage by
building capacity for natural resources
conservation in the Arctic, Yukon-Kuskokwim
Delta, and Cook Inlet and its watershed.
The program works with local partners to
improve information, mitigate threats, and
conserve habitats for salmon, migratory birds,
polar bear, walrus, beluga whale, and caribou.
Orvis supports the Bring Back the Natives/
More Fish grant program which conserves
fish habitats and improves passage for native
fish populations in freshwater and coastal
ecosystems. Orvis has also supported wildlife
projects in the intermountain west states to
connect crucial migratory corridors and
wildlife crossings for bears and antelope.
Since 1999, the Pacific Gas and Electric
Company (PG&E) has partnered with NFWF
on PG&E's Nature Restoration Trust Program,
to support riparian, coastal and wetland
habitat restoration throughout PG&E's service
districts in California. This PG&E and NFWF
collaborative partnership program empowers
local communities to care for native
habitats and species and engage youth in
hands-on enhance
ment, restoration and
stewardship projects.
Phillips 66 has partnered with NFWF to
make conservation investments near their
properties. In 2014, Phillips 66 joined NFWF's
San Francisco Bay Initiative to support the
restoration of significant estuarine habitats in
the San Francisco Bay in order to increase
populations of declining fish, shellfish and
bird species.
Through its Destination Conservation partner-
ship with NFWF, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.
supports conservation of tropical marine
systems throughout the wider Caribbean.
Royal Caribbean is promoting ground-breaking
research and management approaches that
protect coral reef systems and secure
sustainable fisheries for Caribbean nations.
The Shell Oil Company Marine Habitat
Program supports conservation projects that
benefit marine and coastal habitats and species
in the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska.
Since 1998, the partnership has funded 250
projects, supporting the protection, restoration,
and management of over 151,000 acres of
habitat, as well as the improved monitoring and
management of key species in coastal
ecosystems.
For more than a decade, Southern Company
has partnered with NFWF to advance the
restoration of critical longleaf pine, riparian, and
wetland habitat, along with the conservation
and recovery of bird species characteristic of
the South. Focusing on the region served by
Southern Company's four operating companies
in Alabama, Georgia, Florida and Mississippi,
grants are awarded to non-profit organizations,
government agencies and academic institutions
making on-the-ground conservation impacts
through programs targeting both large-scale
and community-based efforts.
TradeWind Energy and Enel Green Power
North America partnered with NFWF to fund
conservation easements on 11,925 acres in the
Flint Hills: America's largest remaining area of
high quality tallgrass prairie. NFWF is working
with TradeWind, Enel, the USDA Natural
Resources Conservation Service, the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service, the Kansas Department of
Wildlife, Parks and Tourism, and the Kansas
Land Trust to protect an additional 6,075 acres
of this irreplaceable and ecologically critical
land in 2015, and to facilitate important
restoration and research work to benefit the
ecosystem.
Walmart and NFWF created Acres for America
in 2005 to conserve lands of national signifi-
cance, protect critical fish and wildlife habitat
and benefit people and local economies. The
Acres for America program has far surpassed
Walmart's initial goal of permanently conserving
at least one acre of priority wildlife habitat for
every acre developed for the company's facilities.
Since its inception, Acres for America has
funded 59 projects in 33 states, the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico.
The Wells Fargo Environmental Solutions
for Communities grant program launched in
2012 as part of Wells Fargo's commitment to
provide $100 million to environmentally-
focused nonprofits and universities by 2020.
The grant program is designed to support
projects that link economic development and
community well-being to the stewardship and
health of the environment. Funding priorities
focus on sustainable agriculture and forestry,
land and water conservation and urban
ecosystem restoration. This program also
supports green infrastructure projects related
to energy efficiency and renewable energy,
while encouraging volunteerism in local
communities.
The Chi-Cal Rivers Fund, supported by the
Wrigley Company Foundation, works to
restore the health, vitality and accessibility of
the waterways in the Chicago/Calumet region
by awarding grants for green stormwater
infrastructure, habitat enhancement and
public-use improvements.
CORPORATE PARTNERS (continued)
Hawksbill sea turtle
29
28
NFWF and the Department of the Interior's
Bureau of Land Management (BLM) partner
on conservation efforts benefiting the nation's
critical public-land ecosystems. The partner-
ship has leveraged $51.8 million in BLM
appropriated funds into more than $220 million
to support habitat restoration and species
recovery activities. In FY 2014, NFWF leveraged
$3 million in BLM appropriated funds into more
than $16.5 million to support more than 60
conservation projects benefiting native fish
and plant habitat restoration on BLM lands.
Focal landscapes and species include the
North Slope of Alaska, Northern Great Plains,
Lahontan cutthroat trout, and Gunnison
sage grouse. BLM funds also were used for
a youth conservation employment initiative,
in partner
ship with NFWF, USFS, FWS
and Reclamation, to provide public land
conservation employment opportunities to
more than 600 young people.
NFWF's partnership with the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
supports innovative, large-scale nutrient
and sediment reduction efforts, as well as
community-based watershed restoration.
Since 1998, NFWF grant programs sponsored
by the agency have awarded more than 1,755
grants leveraging $115.5 million in EPA funds
into more than $337 million for restoration
projects designed to improve our nation's
water quality. In FY 2014, NFWF awarded
$8.6 million in EPA funds that were leveraged
into $30.5 million through 94 projects as part
of the Chesapeake Bay Stewardship Fund,
Sustain Our Great Lakes (in partnership with
FWS), Long Island Sound Futures Fund, and
the Five-Star and Urban Waters Restoration
grant programs.
In FY 2014, NFWF continued to work under
a grant with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation
(Reclamation) to develop and implement
the Walker Basin Restoration Program in
Nevada and California. This program's primary
objective is to restore and maintain Walker
Lake, with a secondary objective of protecting
agricultural, environmental and habitat
interests. In FY14, NFWF established a local
non-profit that will oversee land management
and conservation activities in the Walker Basin,
while NFWF continues to acquire water rights
from willing sellers and work through the
legal process to protect those rights instream.
Over the past year, NFWF also expanded
efforts into the Truckee, Carson, and Summit
basins, awarding more than $10 million in
grant funds in these three basins. NFWF also
partnered for a second year with Reclamation
and other federal agencies on a youth
conservation-employment program which
expanded into the Truckee, Carson, and
Summit basins.
In partnership with the Bonneville Power
Administration and the Northwest Power
and Conservation Council, NFWF supports
an innovative, grassroots, incentive-based
program to improve river and stream flows for
imperiled fish throughout Oregon, Washington,
Idaho, and Montana. The Columbia Basin
Water Transactions Program (CBWTP),
founded in 2002, is the first regional effort of
its kind in the United States to enhance flows
in tributaries through cooperative partnerships
with farmers and ranchers. In FY 2014, the
CBWTP spent $1.8 million on a combination
of permanent and temporary water purchases
to restore more than 35,000 acre-feet of
instream flow to rivers and streams of the
Columbia Basin. These flow enhancements
boost high-priority, fish-bearing habitats
across the region.
NFWF continued to expand its relationship
with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's
Natural Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS) through the announcement of a new
$50 million multi-year partnership to conserve
and restore critical private land habitat within
the Gulf of Mexico over the next five years.
NFWF and NRCS also partnered to launch a
targeted effort to improve water quality in
Western Lake Erie. These new programs build
off of a longstanding effort to support private
landowner outreach designed to achieve
targeted species-specific outcomes. In total,
NFWF has leveraged more than $61.2 million
in NRCS funds into over $228 million in
on-the-ground conservation. In FY 2014, NFWF
supported 46 projects leveraging $3.4 million
in NRCS funds into $21 million to support
conservation on private working lands.
In FY 2014, NFWF was selected by the
Department of the Interior (DOI) to manage
its 21st Century Conservation Service Corps
(21CSC) youth grant program. The program is
a partnership with private companies--
including American Eagle Outfitters, Coca-Cola
Foundation, The North Face, Camelbak, Capital
Records and others--to support employment
opportunities with youth and veterans that
benefit our nation's public lands. In this first
year, $530,000 was awarded to 23 projects
that are expected to engage 160 youth and
10 veterans. NFWF also administers Hurricane
Sandy Coastal Resiliency Competitive Grant
Program grants, which were announced by the
Secretary of the Interior in May. A total of
$102.7 million was leveraged into more than
$175 million through 54 projects that will
develop science-based solutions to restore
wetlands and other natural areas, better
manage stormwater using green infrastructure,
and help states, tribes and local communities
protect themselves from major storms.
In 2014, NFWF also worked with the
following agencies:
Army Corps of Engineers
Department of Defense
International Boundary and
Water Commission
Marine Mammal Commission
U.S. Coast Guard
U.S. Marine Corps
The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation
(NFWF) was established by Congress in 1984
to support the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's
(FWS) mission of conserving fish, wildlife and
plant species. Since that time, NFWF and FWS
have worked together to foster innovative
partnerships with corporations, foundations,
other federal agencies, and non-profit
organ
i
zations to generate new resources for
conservation. From 1986 to 2014, NFWF
leveraged $204.5 million in FWS appropriated
funds into more than $832 million to support
nearly 4,675 grants to nearly 2,000 con
ser
va
tion partners in all 50 states, the U.S. Territories,
and targeted international locations.
 In FY 2014, NFWF awarded $7 million in
FWS appropriated funds. Our partners are
leveraging these funds into $33 million to
finance 110 projects benefiting our nation's fish
and wildlife resources. The FWS funds support
strategic conservation efforts focusing on
at-risk species, habitat enhancement and
community-based stewardship. The partner-
ship seeks to increase populations of targeted
species by promoting the restoration of
landscape-level habitats. Focal areas include
early successional forests, Southeast aquatic
ecosystems, Atlantic shorebird habitats,
Alaska's Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Northern
Great Plains, and the Klamath Basin in the
Pacific Northwest. NFWF and FWS also
partnered on conservation of Pacific seabirds,
bald and golden eagle research, urban refuges,
and the recovery of the Colorado River Delta.
In 1994, Congress formalized the partnership
between NFWF and the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Since
that time, NFWF has rapidly expanded its focus
on the restoration and enhancement of marine
and coastal habitats. Nearly half of NFWF's
investments support conservation activities
benefiting imperiled marine and coastal
species and the critical ecosystems in which
they reside. In total, NFWF has leveraged more
than $76.2 million in NOAA funding to produce
more than $207.5 million for on-the-ground
and in-the-water conservation.
 In FY 2014, NFWF awarded $4.4 million
in NOAA funds to 67 projects focused on coral
reefs, sea turtles, marine debris removal,
sustainable fisheries and the restoration of
coastal habitats. While some of these projects
did not require matching funds, NFWF's
partners leveraged the NOAA funds to produce
more than $8.8 million for marine and coastal
conservation. New partnerships in FY 2014
focused on the recovery of beluga whales in
Alaska and improving the sustainability and
traceability of seafood consumed in the United
States, with an initial focus on the Honduras
spiny lobster fishery.
NFWF and the U.S. Department of
Agriculture's U.S. Forest Service (USFS) work
together to restore the health of habitats and
watersheds that benefit people, plants and
animals. Through this partnership, NFWF has
leveraged $45.6 million in USFS directly
appropriated funds into more than $264
million to benefit forest species and eco
systems. In FY 2014, NFWF awarded $3 million
in USFS appropriated funds to support more
than 60 projects, resulting in a total on-the-
ground investment of over $32 million.
These projects focused on large ecosystems
including the Sierras, the Great Lakes and
Upper Klamath Basin watersheds, Northern
Great Plains, and Northern Rockies migratory
corridors. Other projects directly benefited
species of mutual concern, such as migratory
songbirds of early successional forests,
Chinook salmon, and several species of
threatened or endangered trout. NFWF also
works with USFS State and Private Forestry
to support the recovery of the longleaf pine
ecosystem, buffer streams within the
Chesapeake Bay watershed, and restore
forests within high-priority urban watersheds.
f e d e r a l pa r t n e r s
f e d e r a l pa r t n e r s
NFWF works closely with U.S. government agencies to maximize the resources available for conservation.
In 2014, these partners supported our actions on behalf of fish and wildlife and their habitats.
Mule deer
31
30
$500,000+
Altria
Anonymous
ArcelorMittal
Gabrielle and Louis Bacon/
The Moore Charitable Foundation
ConocoPhillips
CSX
Barbara and Ray Dalio
FedEx
Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation
Illinois Department of Natural Resources
International Paper
Ishiyama Foundation
Sonia and Paul Tudor Jones II
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board
Shell Oil Company
Southern Company
Walmart
Walton Family Foundation
Wells Fargo
William Penn Foundation
$100,000­$499,999
Alcoa Foundation
American Eagle Outfitters
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.
Bank of America
Bass Pro Shops
BNSF Railway
Campion Foundation
Richard L. Chilton
Coca-Cola Foundation
Covanta Energy
Crown Family Philanthropies
Darden Restaurants
Edison International
Exxon Exploration Company
Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley Foundation
Jackson Hole One Fly Foundation
Christopher M. James
Jim Kelley and Amie Knox
Amy and Carl R. Kuehner, III
The Marisla Foundation
Patti and Don McGrath
The Mosaic Company
Ruth O'Donnell Mutch
NOVAGOLD RESOURCES INC.
Phillips 66
Chad and Blake Pike
Rauner Family Foundation
Richard King Mellon Foundation
Elizabeth and Rod Rodriguez
Royal Caribbean Cruises, Ltd.
The Seattle Foundation
Amy and Jeff Towers
TradeWind Energy
Wrigley Company Foundation
$25,000­$99,999
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation
Bed Bath and Beyond
blue moon fund
BP
Brunswick Foundation, Inc.
Max C. Chapman, Jr.
The Chicago Community Trust
ConocoPhillips Alaska
Mark Dalton
Roberta and Steve Denning
Deutsche Bank
Donlin Gold LLC
Mark Dowley
Fiona and Stan Druckenmiller
Eva and Glenn Dubin
EarthShare
Eco Media CBS Inc.
Heath and John Faraci
Gabelli Funds
Grey Family Foundation
JJ Healy
George C. (Tim) Hixon
Patsy Ishiyama
Jeniam Foundation
The Joyce Foundation
Lennar Homes
Reuben and Arlene Mark
McKnight Foundation
Mission Blue
Mitsubishi Corporation Foundation
for the Americas
Sukey and Mike Novogratz
The Orchard Farm Foundation
Paul and Patricia Kuehner
Family Foundation
David Perkins, The Orvis Company
Resource Legacy Fund
Mark F. Rockefeller
Steven & Alexandra Cohen Foundation
Gene T. Sykes
U.S. Funders Collaborative
Lisa and Mark Vallely
Dax Vlassis
Ward W. Woods
$5,000­$24,999
Thomas Alterson
American Bird Conservancy
Laurel and Cliff Asness
Barclays
Terri and Jeff Becks
Wade A. and Deborah A. Boggs
Melissa and Justin Boisseau
Chevron Corporation
Citi Private Bank
Beck and Munroe Cobey
Connecticut Light & Power
Donald N. Dinallo,
Terminal Construction Corporation
Patrick Durkin
Geraldine and Steve Evans
Executive Custom Construction, Inc.
Amy and John Griffin
Courtney and Michael Grigsby
Jennifer Hanawald and Warren Rabin
JP Morgan Chase & Co.
Eaddo and Peter Kiernan
Elaine and Ken Langone
Kevin Law
Long Island Community Foundation
Robert W. Marwin
The McCance Foundation
National Audubon Society
Michael Neal
New York Community Bank Foundation
Amy and Tony Pasquariello
Andrew S. Paul
Pawling Mountain Club
Irving John Payne, PhD
Michael J. Petrick
Joshua A. Press
Paul Raether
Alex Roepers
Jeffrey H. Salzman
John and Frances von Schlegell Family Fund
Societe Generale
Beth and Tom Strickland
Sullivan and Cromwell LLP
John A. Tomke
Barbara and John Tormondsen
Jeff Trandahl
Turner Foundation
The Valentine Foundation
Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program
Louise Zarrilli and Christopher Sargente
$1000­$4,999
American National
Insurance Company
David H. Anderson
Sue Anschutz-Rodgers
Bessemer Trust
Brown Family Foundation
Beth Christ Smith
Charles H. Collins
Laura and Dean Davis
Sean M. Doyle
Tanya and Eric Eikenberg
The Everglades Foundation
Eric Fast
Debbie and Richard Fife
Fuss and O'Neill, Inc.
Scott Haig
Lila Harper Helms
Kent Hiteshew
The Joelson Foundation
Thomas E. Kelsch
Greg Knadle
Dennis LaCroix
Dennis Lassuy
William Lykes
Vince McMahon
Michael D. Melnick
Bruce S. Nicholas
David O'Neill
Emily and Brad Orben
Douglas L. Paul
Leslie and David Puth
Melvin Raff
Richard C. Breeden & Co. LLC
Mrs. Margaretta Rockefeller
Anne and Clay Rohrbach
Valerie and Jim Root
David Saltzman
Ben Scott
Finley and Patrick Shaw
Friedel Stubbe
Gerry Vans
Paul Viguerie
Emily V. Wade
Steven A. Williams
The Wyss Foundation
Stephen Zoukis
$500­$999
Anonymous
Barrett Roofing
Amanda Bassow
Joseph Bond
Stephanie Tom Coupe
Beverly Cox
Bill D'Alonzo
Timothy DiCintio
Jacob and Jennifer Freeman
Claude Gascon
Helen K. Groves
H. Darrell Harvey
Laura Ley
Kevin Linskey
Robert Menzi
Myra Neal Morrison
K.C. Murphy
Daniel S. Oneglia
Julie Parish
Robert Polin
Timothy P. Schieffelin
Tom Sinchak
Connie Strobbe
Donn Waage
Krystyna U. Wolniakowski
$250­$499
Omar Abhari
Joy Akabude
Janet Alward
Jim Alward
Robert Blumenthal
Bruce N. Bolton
Julie K. Campbell
Marla Carter
Anthony Chatwin
Ian Davidson
Julia DeBuchananne
Barbara Florack
Eric Forward
Paul Gaffney
David Gagner
Eric Gardner
Mark Gershenson
Ken Hayes
Jacina R. Hayes-Waters
Nassar Jabour
Tanner A. Johnson
Mary Keelin
Brian Leitner
Megan Oliver
Eric Poe
Princeton University Press
Suzanne Sessine
Patricia E. Sullivan
Anthony Tortora
James Tucker
Clinton Wong
2 0 1 4 d o n o r s
In 2014, generous gifts from these donors furthered NFWF's actions to protect and restore
wildlife and their habitats. We gratefully acknowledge their support.
Black-chinned hummingbirds
34
33
NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
John V. Faraci, Jr.
Chairman
Patsy Ishiyama
Vice-Chair
Paul Tudor Jones II
Vice-Chair
Carl R. Kuehner, III
Vice-Chair
Charles D. McCrary
Vice-Chair
Don J. McGrath
Vice-Chair
Dan Ashe
Michael L. Campbell
J. Michael Cline
Lance Conn
Ray Dalio
Caroline Getty
JJ Healy
George C. (Tim) Hixon
Christopher M. James
James P. Kelley
Eaddo H. Kiernan
Reuben Mark
R. King Milling
Ruth O'Donnell Mutch
David Perkins
Chad Pike
Edwin R. "Rod" Rodriguez, Jr.
Thomas L. Strickland
Kathryn D. Sullivan
John A. Tomke
Amy Robbins Towers
Victoria J. Tschinkel
John E. von Schlegell
Steven A. Williams
NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION
STAFF
Executive Staff
Jeff Trandahl
Executive Director/
Chief Executive Officer
Claude Gascon, Ph.D.
Executive Vice President,
Science, Evaluation and Programs
Lila Harper Helms
Executive Vice President,
External Affairs
Senior Leadership
Beth Christ Smith
Vice President, Human Resources
Stephanie Tom Coupe
Senior Director, Impact-Directed
Environmental Accounts (IDEA)
Timothy DiCintio
Senior Vice President,
Impact-Directed Environmental
Accounts (IDEA)
Tokunbo Falayi
Vice President,
Finance and Accounting
David Gagner
Senior Director,
Government Relations
Thomas Kelsch
Senior Vice President,
Gulf Environmental Benefit Fund
Greg Knadle
Vice President,
Government Relations
David O'Neill
Vice President,
Conservation Programs
Gerry Vans
Vice President,
Compliance and Risk Management
Partnership
Office Directors
Amanda Bassow
Eastern
Donn Waage
Central
Jonathan Birdsong
Western
Keystone Directors
Anthony Chatwin, Ph.D.
Marine and Coastal Conservation
Ian Davidson
Bird Conservation
David Lawrence, Ph.D.
Freshwater Fish Conservation
Carly Vynne, Ph.D.
Wildlife and Habitat Conservation
Staff
Joy Akabude
Heather Chase Alexander
Edward Beshers
Pablo Blasi
Rob Blumenthal
Joseph Bond
Margette Bourne
Daniel Bowater
Eliza Braendel
Kenya Browning
Elmer Bull
Anne Butterfield
Kristen Byler
Marla Carter
Lee Caulcrick
Mandy Chesnutt
Carrie Clingan
Christopher Collins
Morgan Cross
Jeffrey Dangel
Rachel Dawson
Julia DeBuchananne
Jennie Dean
Ashley Downing
Stephany Dula-Strong
Lynn Dwyer
Dean Economides
Teal Edelen
Julia Ela
Rachael Evarts
Daniel Forkkio
Cassidy Forman
Eric Forward
Matthew Foster
Michael Freedman
Paul Gaffney
Meskerem Gebertsadik
Anna Gering
Traci Giefer
Brigid Gillespie
Deborah Gillespie
Emily Graham
Amanda Green
C. Scott Hall
Jacina Hayes-Waters
Sharon Hestrand
Todd Hogrefe
Rankin Holmes
William Jackson
Tanner Johnson
Brenda Kaechele
Christina Kakoyannis, Ph.D.
Fatima Kamara
Mary Keelin
Mehvish Khan
Courtney Kwiatkowski
Michael Lagua
John Lamoreux, Ph.D.
Jessica Lassetter
Candace Leong
Kevin Linskey
Carrie Loh
Annamarie Lopata
Danyell Mackall
Shawn Marchand
Kacy Markowitz
Scott McCaulou
Courtney McGeachy
Sarah McIntosh
Mark Melino
Joy Morris
Elizabeth Nellums
Jayme Ohlhaver
Nancy Olkewicz
Jody Olson
Michelle Olson
Caroline Oswald
Michelle Pico
Elizabeth Planken
Robert Polin
Jonathan Porthouse
Genee' Powell
Andrew Purkey
David Radomsky
Jake Reilly
Jonathan Scott
Suzanne Sessine
Michael Sharp
Kimberly Shriner
Andrew Stilson
Claire Thorp
Lindsay Vacek
Ryan VanderMeulen
Colleen Walters
Matt Winter
Jason Wright
John Wright
David Yardas
DESIGN: Landesberg Design
PHOTOGRAPHY: Kurt Wecker (Oystercatcher,
cover); Earl Nottingham, Texas Parks & Wildlife
(p. 4, bottom); T. Parker Shuerman (p. 6, bottom);
CSX (p.10), National Geographic (p. 10, bottom);
National Geographic (p. 12, top), Tom and Pat
Leeson (p. 12, bottom); Pat Clayton (p. 14, top),
Mike Sevon (p. 14, bottom); David Gn (p. 16,
bottom); Tracy Borneman (p. 18, top); National
Geographic (p. 20, top); Greg Knadle (p.22);
National Geographic (p. 27)
ILLUSTRATIONS: Steven Noble
NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
AND EASTERN PARTNERSHIP OFFICE
1133 Fifteenth Street, N.W.
Suite 1100
Washington, D.C. 20005
202-857-0166
CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP OFFICE
8011 34th Avenue South
Suite 444
Bloomington, MN 55425
612-564-7284
WESTERN PARTNERSHIP OFFICE
90 New Montgomery Street
Suite 1010
San Francisco, CA 94105
415-778-0999
