2012
A N N U A L R E P O R T
F R E E D O M &
OPPORTUNITY
L E A D I N G T H E F I G H T FO R
F R E E D O M &
OPPORTUNITY
A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 01 2
L E A D I N G T H E F I G H T FO R
The Heritage Foundation
Leading the Fight for Freedom & Opportunity
OUR MISSION: To formulate and promote conservative public policies based on the principles of
free enterprise, limited government, individual freedom, traditional American values and a strong
national defense.
214 Massachusetts Avenue NE | Washington, DC 20002
(202) 546-4400 | heritage.org
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Thomas A. Saunders III, Chairman
Richard M. Scaife, Vice Chairman
J. Frederic Rench, Secretary
Meg Allen
Douglas F. Allison
Larry P. Arnn, Ph.D.
The Hon. Belden Bell
Midge Decter
Edwin J. Feulner, Ph.D.
Steve Forbes
Todd W. Herrick
Jerry Hume
Kay Coles James
The Hon. J. William Middendorf II
Abby Moffat
Nersi Nazari, Ph.D.
Robert Pennington
Anthony J. Saliba
William E. Simon, Jr.
Brian Tracy
Phillip N. Truluck
Barb Van Andel-Gaby
Marion G. Wells
HONORARY CHAIRMAN
AND TRUSTEE EMERITUS
David R. Brown, M.D.
HONORARY TRUSTEES
Kathryn Davis
The Hon. Frank Shakespeare
PATRON OF THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
The Right Honourable The Baroness Thatcher, LG, PC, OM, FRS
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Edwin J. Feulner, Ph.D., President
Jim DeMint, President-elect
Phillip N. Truluck, Executive Vice President
David Addington, Senior Vice President
Stuart M. Butler, Ph.D., Distinguished Fellow
James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., Vice President
Becky Norton Dunlop, Vice President
John Fogarty, Vice President
Michael G. Franc, Vice President
Michael M. Gonzalez, Vice President
Kim R. Holmes, Ph.D., Distinguished Fellow
Geoffrey Lysaught, Vice President
Edwin Meese III, Reagan Distinguished Fellow Emeritus	
Derrick Morgan, Vice President
Matthew Spalding, Ph.D., Vice President
Michael Spiller, Vice President
John Von Kannon, Vice President and Senior Counselor
Genevieve Wood, Vice President
Robert E. Russell, Jr., Counselor
As a nonprofit 501(c)3 organization, we rely on the financial
contributions of the general public: individuals, foundations and
corporations. We accept no government funds and perform no
contract work. We welcome your support.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 3
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
A Land of Opportunity, Still
Message from the Chairman and the President
“America is a great country because in every crisis
it finds ways to renew itself. Leaders emerge.
Men and women of courage, character and
vision step up, … make the hard decisions and
lead America forward.”
	 EDWIN J. FEULNER AND BRIAN TRACY,
THE AMERICAN SPIRIT, 2012
I
t was a year of great drama and disappointment.
Arab Spring turned to Islamist Winter … the
Supreme Court upheld Obamacare … the Pentagon
absorbed another $400 billion budget cut … and entitle-
ment spending raged out of control as Washington sped
to the edge of the Fiscal Cliff.
Yet 2012 also yielded some significant advances.
Domestic energy production soared—despite
Washington’s best efforts to limit exploration and drill-
ing. Governors in labor-dominated Wisconsin and
Michigan blunted the self-serving power of unions. And
the presidential contest showed that Social Security and
Medicare reform was no longer the “third rail” of politics.
The roller-coaster year proved once again that,
even amid setbacks and adversity, there is opportu-
nity to advance conservative policies and values. And
Heritage acted to make the most of those opportuni-
ties for years to come.
In December, the Board of Trustees named a worthy
successor to Heritage President Ed Feulner. Senator
Jim DeMint agreed to take the helm, effective April 3,
2013. With his leadership, we are confident Heritage
will achieve more and even greater successes far into
the future.
At Heritage, we don’t underestimate the challenges
ahead. We see the problems clearly. But we also see
the solutions.
Top: Sen. Jim DeMint addresses an all-staff meeting Dec. 6 in
Allison Auditorium. Just minutes earlier, Heritage Chairman Tom
Saunders and President Ed Feulner (seated right) had introduced
him as Heritage’s President-elect. Above: Tom Saunders (left) and
Ed Feulner flank Clare Boothe Luce Award winners Midge Decter
and Norman Podhoretz.
Barnett
Photography
Shealah Craighead Photography
4 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Our country can be truly great again. At Heritage, we
are laying the groundwork for a conservative comeback.
We have a senior management team with unparalleled
vision. And we have the nation’s best researchers and
analysts. All are committed to developing and pro-
moting policies that will assure the next generation of
Americans has the opportunity to pursue their dreams
and better their communities through the free exercise
of their abilities.
Achievements in the Face of Adversity
Conservativestooksomeverytoughlossesin2012.
Yeteverysetbackalsopresentedafreshopportunityfor
futurevictories. TaketheSupremeCourtdecisiononthe
PatientProtectionandAffordableCareAct(“Obamacare”).
Themajorityupheldprovisionsthatrequireemployers
andindividualstopurchasegovernment-approvedhealth
coveragewhethertheywantitornot.Mostobservers
agreedthattheanti-mandatearguments—firstraisedby
Heritage—seemedbyfarthestrongest.SoChiefJustice
Roberts’rulingthatmandatesweren’treallymandates—
justtaxes—wasahugedisappointment.
Yet the same ruling also provided an opening for
future success in derailing the misguided law. How?
The justices held the feds could not force states to
extend Medicaid coverage to previously ineligible
Americans by threatening to withdraw existing
Medicaid funding.
With the Medicaid expansion ruled optional,
Heritage health policy experts immediately got to work,
educating state officials about the tremendous liabili-
ties associated with adding millions of Americans to an
already struggling Medicaid program. In many cases,
the long view is prevailing. By year’s end, only 15 gover-
nors had committed to expand Medicaid.
Alsoencouraging:Ourmessagethatthenumerous
taxescreatedunderObamacarewouldwreakeconomic
havocbegantoresonate—evenin“progressive”quarters.
InDecember,16liberalsenators—allofwhomhadvoted
forObamacare—petitionedSenateMajorityLeaderHarry
Reidtodelaythelaw’sjob-killingtaxonmedicaldevices.
At year’s end, one thing was clear: Obamacare
remained deeply unpopular with the American people.
And despite the Court’s adverse ruling on the mandate,
the program’s ultimate fate was still unsettled.
Heritage’s ideas prevailed elsewhere—both before
and after the elections. For example, liberals attempted
to gain Senate approval of three treaties. All three car-
ried a long-term risk of ceding power to international
organizations, undercutting American sovereignty.
After scores of briefings by Heritage analysts, all
three pacts failed. The Law of the Sea Treaty was pulled
back in July, never to reappear. The UN Arms Trade
Treaty was tabled that month as well. In December, the
Senate refused to ratify the UN Disability Rights Treaty.
Heritage logged other post-election wins as well:
President Obama signed a bill establishing Permanent
Normal Trade Relations with Russia. The measure
included Heritage-recommended provisions enabling
the U.S. to impose sanctions on Russian officials who
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 5
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
abuse human rights. The bill thus simultaneously
advanced U.S. economic interests and affirmed our sta-
tus as a champion of international human rights.
AlsoinDecember,TaiwanwasadmittedtotheVisa
WaiverProgram,andthewrong-headedCybersecurity
Actof2012wentdowntodefeatforasecondtime.
Heritagehomelandsecurityanalystscheeredbothactions.
Perhapsmostencouraging,ourSavingtheAmerican
Dreamplantoright-sizethefederalgovernmentandput
thenation’sfiscalhouseinordergainedground.InMay,
SenatorMikeLee(R–Utah)introducedabudgetproposal
entirelybasedonourplan.Lee’sproposal,observedThe
Hillnewspaper,“callsfora25percentflatincometaxrate,
transformsSocialSecurity…andcontainsaMedicare
premiumsupportoption. Itwouldbalancethebudgetby
2017bycuttingspendingby$7trillion.”
Lee’s bill garnered 17 votes in the Senate—17 more
than President Obama’s budget. More importantly, the
Congressional Budget Office’s “scoring” of the proposal
demonstrated that Washington can, in fact, eliminate
the deficit without raising taxes.
Preparing for Continued Success
Heritage itself underwent some major transitions
during 2012. We welcomed Chicago financier Anthony
J. Saliba to our Board of Trustees. Profiled in the best-
selling Market Wizards, Saliba is the executive manag-
ing director of the BNYConvergEx Group.
Our Senior Management team underwent major
changes, as well.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION BOARD OF TRUSTEES
(From left): Anthony J. Saliba, Chicago, Ill.; Meg Allen, Geneva,
Switzerland; Robert Pennington, Darien, Conn.; Brian Tracy, Solana
Beach, Calif.; Kay Coles James, Fairfax Station, Va.; Larry P. Arnn,
Hillsdale, Mich.; David R. Brown, Trustee Emeritus, Oklahoma City,
Okla.; Nersi Nazari, Atherton, Calif.; Douglas F. Allison, Bloomfield
Hills, Mich.; Thomas A. Saunders III, Chairman, New York, N.Y.;
Edwin J. Feulner, Alexandria, Va.; Jerry Hume, San Francisco, Calif.;
Phillip N. Truluck, Bethesda, Md.; J. Frederic Rench, Secretary,
Camden, S.C.; Barb Van Andel-Gaby, Duluth, Ga.; Abby Moffat,
Bethesda, Md.; J. William Middendorf II, Little Compton, R.I.;
Richard M. Scaife, Vice Chairman, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Belden H. Bell,
Marshall, Va.; Todd W. Herrick, Bay Harbor, Mich.; Marion G. Wells,
Fla.; Steve Forbes, New York, N.Y.; Midge Decter, New York, N.Y.
(Not pictured: William E. Simon, Jr., Los Angeles, Calif.)
Heritage in 2012 …
BY THE NUMBERS
194 PUBLIC LECTURES AND SEMINARS
315 ISSUE BRIEFS
120 BACKGROUNDERS
14 LEGAL MEMORANDA
29 SPECIAL REPORTS
28 CONGRESSIONAL TESTIMONIES
1,400 COMMENTARIES IN MAJOR PRINT OUTLETS
4,000 RADIO INTERVIEWS
1,200 TELEVISION INTERVIEWS
350+ INTERVIEWS WITH SPANISH-LANGUAGE MEDIA
250,000 VISITORS TO LIBERTAD.ORG
11.2 MILLION VISITORS TO HERITAGE.ORG
10 MILLION VISITORS TO “THE FOUNDRY” BLOG
223,000 “MORNING BELL” E-NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIBERS
500,000 FACEBOOK FANS
260,000 TWITTER FOLLOWERS
AND HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF MEMBERS
THANK YOU!
Frasierphoto.com
6 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Geoffrey Lysaught was named Vice President for
Strategy and Finance. A public policy executive and
investment banker, he replaced Ted Schelenski, who
retired in May.
Edwin Meese III announced his “semi-retirement.”
He remains our Ronald Reagan Distinguished Fellow
Emeritus. With the generous support of our donors,
Heritage named our legal center the Edwin Meese III
Center for Legal and Judicial Studies.
David Addington now heads that center, as Senior
Vice President for Legal and Judicial Policy. Derrick
Morgan, previously Chief of Staff for Heritage President
Ed Feulner, moved into Addington’s old post as Vice
President for Domestic and Economic Policy.
Kim Holmes, our longtime Vice President for
Foreign and Defense Policy, turned those responsibili-
ties over to his long-time deputy, James Carafano. Now
a Distinguished Fellow, Holmes continues to serve on
the Senior Management team.
The biggest change of all came with Ed Feulner’s
announcement that he would step down as President of
Heritage on April 3, 2013—his 36th
anniversary here. “Ed
Feulner has made Heritage not just a permanent institu-
tion on Capitol Hill, but the flagship organization of the
entire conservative movement,” Heritage Chairman
Thomas Saunders noted at the Dec. 6 all-staff meeting
announcing the news.
SaunderswentontointroduceFeulner’ssuccessor:
JimDeMint,theSouthCarolinasenatorwho,overthelast
decade,organizedacontingentofprincipledconserva-
tivestoserveintheU.S.HouseandSenate. “Todaywehave
combinedthemostpowerfulandeffectiveconservative
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
(From left): Michael G. Franc, Vice President; Stuart M. Butler, Distinguished Fellow; Genevieve Wood, Vice President; Michael M. Gonzalez,
Vice President; John Von Kannon, Vice President and Senior Counselor; David Addington, Senior Vice President; Edwin Meese III,
Reagan Fellow; Geoffrey Lysaught, Vice President; Edwin J. Feulner, President; Derrick Morgan, Vice President; James Carafano,
Vice President; Sen. Jim DeMint, President-elect; John Fogarty, Vice President; Phillp N. Truluck, Executive Vice President; Matthew Spalding,
Vice President; Becky Norton Dunlop, Vice President; Michael Spiller, Vice President; Kim R. Holmes, Distinguished Fellow.
David Hills Photography
Face
to
Face
Photography
New in 2012
In July, Heritage Action for America launched
“Istook Live!”—our own talk-radio show. Hosted by
Distinguished Fellow Ernest Istook, the nationally syndi-
cated show features analysts and public figures discuss-
ing the day’s top policy debates … and what’s happening
behind the scenes in Congress.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 7
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
thinktankinAmericawithAmerica’smostprincipledand
effectiveconservativeleader,”Saunderssaid.
That view was echoed by pundits and politicians alike.
In Human Events, Erick Erickson hailed the appoint-
ment as “a bold and brilliant move.” Capitol Hill news-
paper Roll Call wrote: “The marriage of Sen. Jim DeMint
and The Heritage Foundation looks poised to raise the
political influence of both the man and the think tank.”
Senator Ted Cruz (R–Texas) summarized the move
this way: “Under Ed Feulner, Heritage laid the foun-
dation for the Reagan Revolution; under Jim DeMint,
Heritage will [pave the way for] … a national renewal.”
Thanks to your support and Heritage’s principled
leadership—past and present—the opportunity to
advance freedom, opportunity, prosperity, and civil
society has never been greater.
Lynde
and
Harry
Bradley
Foundation
David
Hills
Photography
David
Hills
Photography
2012 Honors Given …
■
■ Midge Decter and Norman Podhoretz, two leading
intellectual lights of the conservative movement,
received Heritage’s Clare Boothe Luce Award.
■
■ Kevin J. “Seamus” Hasson, founder of the Becket
Fund for Religious Liberty, received the Henry
Salvatori Prize for American Citizenship.
… and Received
■
■ President Ed Feulner and Distinguished Fellow
Ed Meese each received the Lynde and Harry
Bradley Foundation’s Bradley Prize for outstanding
achievement.
■
■ Feulner also was awarded the Golden Medal
of the President of the Czech Republic for his
“tireless defense of freedom, individual liberty and
free markets.”
■
■ Vice President John Von Kannon received
the John Ashbrook Award for service to the
conservative movement.
■
■ Forbes magazine named Director Heather
Pfitzenmaier one of “30 Under 30” young
Americans having the greatest impact on U.S.
law and policy. She also received the Young
Conservatives Coalition’s Buckley Award
■
■ McClatchy Newspapers named President-elect
Jim DeMint one of “10 to Watch in 2013.”
Thomas A. Saunders III
Chairman
Edwin J. Feulner
President
Edwin J. Feulner (left) receives the Bradley Prize from Michael
W. Grebe, President and CEO of The Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation at the Kennedy Center. Said Grebe in presenting
the award, “Ed Feulner has elevated the influence of conserva-
tive research institutions. … Under his guidance, The Heritage
Foundation has become a bastion of ideas that are an integral part
of the national conversation.”
In Memorium:
CHARLES GEER
1945–2012
Photographer and longtime
friend of Heritage
8 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
A
merica was founded on ideas—the principles
found in The Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution and explained in works like the
Federalist Papers. It’s what marks us as “an exceptional
nation.” And to this day, adherence to those founding
principles offers the best hope and greatest opportunity
to all Americans.
In 2012, a cacophony of partisan rhetoric threatened
to drown out that eternal truth. But Heritage wasn’t
about to let that happen.
Webeganbyframingthenationaldebateintermsof
firstprincipleswithChangingAmerica’sCourse:What’sat
Stakein2012byHeritageVicePresidentMatthewSpalding.
We took on the class-warriors directly with
Defending the American Dream: Why Income Inequality
Doesn’t Threaten Opportunity. This Special Report, pre-
pared jointly by our Center for Principles and Politics
and Center for Data Analysis, refuted the notion that
government exists to redistribute wealth. It promoted
the alternative vision of an “opportunity society.”
By confronting liberal dogma, the report attracted
media interest … even at The New York Times. It
also became the talk of the Values Voter Summit in
Washington, D.C., where Spalding moderated a lively
panel on “Income Inequality: Reconciling Capitalism
and Compassion.”
Instilling Principles on Capitol Hill
The “political class” remains the group of Americans
most in need of the Founders’ principles and most likely
to flout them. That’s why Heritage worked hard to instill
a lasting understanding and appreciation of those prin-
ciples among current and future leaders on Capitol Hill.
In January, more than 45 members of Congress
attended our Conservative Members Retreat in
Philadelphia. The two-day session focused on America’s
First Principles and how to preserve them.
We organized a Constitutional Training Retreat for
Republican Study Committee (RSC) members. The retreat
proved so successful, the RSC asked Spalding to lead a
monthly seminar on First Principles for its entire staff.
And we continued to educate Hill staff on how
founding principles relate to current policy debates
through our Congressional Fellows and Madison
Fellows programs—the former for junior staffers, the
latter for senior-level staff. As one participant said of
the Congressional Fellows program, “It connects us
to the great traditions of the past and anchors us to
“A general dissolution of principles and manners will more surely overthrow the liberties of
America than the whole force of the common enemy.”
—SAMUEL ADAMS, LETTER TO JAMES WARREN, FEBRUARY 12, 1779
Sound Principles Assure
Freedom and Opportunity for All
Kevin J. “Seamus” Hasson, founder of the Becket Fund for
Religious Liberty, received Heritage’s Salvatori Prize for American
Citizenship at the 35th annual Resource Bank meeting on April
26 in Colorado Springs. Opposite top: At Heritage’s Conservative
Members Retreat in Philadelphia, lawmakers gain some insight
into the Founders’ beliefs during a lecture at the Liberty Bell.
Shealah
Craighead
Photography
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 9
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
First Principles amid the dizzying partisan chaos and
histrionics.” Attendance at the weekly seminars aver-
aged more than 100. At year’s end, we graduated 61
Congressional Fellows—the largest class yet.
Fostering Understanding
Throughout the Land
Heritage also strove to improve ordinary Americans’
understanding of our founding principles.
We completed our 15-essay series on Understanding
America with the publication of Ed Feulner’s What is
the Role of the People? More than 250,000 copies of the
essays have been distributed thus far.
And we launched a new essay series: The Makers of
American Political Thought. Each installment profiles
a historical figure who significantly shaped our nation’s
political thought … for good or ill. The first three pro-
filed were George Washington, Theodore Roosevelt and
Woodrow Wilson.
We also launched a new website, ConstitutionOnline.
com. This online version of the Heritage Guide to
the Constitution is designed for everyone from Tea
Party activists to law professors. Enthusiasts include
Representative Darrell Issa (R–Calif.), who tweeted,
“Finally, an ONLINE guide to the Constitution … [a]
handy and unique site.” In just five months, the site had
drawn over 200,000 readers.
“The Madison Fellows program has been the perfect
way for me to connect the principles of our Found-
ing to the policies and ideas that conservatives are
fighting for on Capitol Hill. It’s for any staffer who
wants to know not just the ‘what’ and ‘how,’ but the
‘why’ behind our work and how we should be serving
in government.”
—Wesley A. Goodman,
U.S. House Republican Study Committee
Understanding America
Heritage completed its 15-essay series on
Understanding America. More than a quarter-million
copies of the essays have been distributed since the
series launched in October 2010.
Shealah Craighead Photography
10 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Face
to
Face
Photography
Slowing the Advance of Obamacare
“If people let the government decide what foods they eat and what medicines they take,
their bodies will soon be in as a sorry state as the souls who live under tyranny.”
—THOMAS JEFFERSON
I
t was the Supreme Court story of the year: 26
states and the National Federation of Independent
Business challenged the constitutionality of the
Obamacare mandate to buy federally-approved health
insurance. And Heritage was center stage.
And why not? As MSNBC and others noted, it was
our December 2009 Legal Memorandum that first
developed the legal argument being advanced by the
plaintiffs.
Boasting both legal and health policy expertise,
Heritage used the spotlight cast by the Supreme Court’s
hearings to explain anew how Obamacare would radi-
cally impair the quality of health care and alter the tradi-
tional role and power of the American state.
Although most observers felt that Heritage’s con-
stitutional arguments had carried the day in court, a
bare majority of justices wound up ruling for the
Administration—thanks to Chief Justice John Roberts’
determination that the mandate isn’t really a mandate,
just a tax.
Heritage responded to the unfortunate ruling by con-
tinuing to make the case for outright repeal. In just the
first four days following the Court’s decision, Heritage
experts participated in more than 70 major broadcast
and print interviews. Their arguments struck a chord:
Our Facebook “Repeal Obamacare” image received
14,000 “likes”—a Heritage record for Facebook interac-
tion—and we gained thousands of new Twitter followers.
We also continued educating the medical profes-
sion about how the law could disrupt their practices.
Distinguished Fellow Stuart Butler, for example, writes
for the official blog of the Journal of the American
Medical Association. His day-after-the-election post
perfectly encapsulated Heritage’s pugnacious stance:
“End of the Threat to Obamacare? Not at All.”
Butler’s work was noticed—and respected—by the
Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The agency asked
Top: Senior Vice President David Addington invites a question
for then-Sen. Jim DeMint, R–S.C., at “Now It’s Up to Congress,”
a Heritage special event responding to that day’s Supreme Court
decision on Obamacare. Above: Lawyer Michael Rosman listens as
Congressional Counsel Carrie Severino makes a point at our March
20 “Obamacare in Briefs” event.
Face to Face Photography
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 11
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
him to serve on its health care advisory panel. From
that perch he can weigh in on how the CBO should
“score” various proposals to roll back the law.
Meanwhile, Heritage made the most of a little-noted
silver lining in the Supreme Court’s ruling: a determina-
tion that the federal government could not coerce states
to expand their Medicaid programs by threatening to
withhold existing funding. Expanding Medicaid is a crit-
ical element of Obamacare. The Administration expects
to cover roughly half of those now without insurance by
moving them into this “Great Society” program.
To induce states to take on millions of new Medicaid
patients, Obamacare offers a huge carrot—nearly $1 tril-
lion over a decade. It’s a tempting offer for cash-strapped
states, but Heritage raised two key questions: Can a def-
icit-laden federal treasury actually honor that commit-
ment? And what will states do once the money dries up?
Nina Owcharenko, Director of our Center for Health
Policy Studies, sounded the alarm in a nationally syn-
dicated column: “Expanding Medicaid Plans is Costly
Mistake for States.” And Heritage’s Drew Gonshorowski
and Edmund Haislmaier penned a definitive “State
Lawmaker’s Guide to Evaluating Medicaid Expansion
Projections.”
The message sunk in. By year’s end, eight governors
had announced they did not support the expansion, and
27 were on the fence. As Dr. Bill Hazel, Virginia’s Health
Secretary, told the Associated Press, “The state does
not want to expand Medicaid and get stuck with the bill.
Our legislators do not like to raise taxes to pay for a ben-
efit someone else has promised.”
Heritage also warned states to think twice before
agreeing to set up health insurance exchanges under
the Obamacare framework of top-down regulation and
restrictions.
Most states heeded our advice, eschewing Obamacare
exchanges despite the offer of heavy subsidies. As
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett explained: “[The
promise of] state authority to run a health insurance
exchange is illusory. In reality, Pennsylvania would
end up shouldering all of the costs by 2015, but have no
authority to govern the [federally-controlled] program.”
By year’s end, only 13 governors had committed to
doing both the Medicaid expansion and state-based
exchanges envisioned in Obamacare. And even liberal
lawmakers were having second thoughts about the
scheme’s tax burden. In December, 17 senators who
had voted for the act petitioned Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid to delay its “job-killing” (their words) tax on
medical devices—slated to take effect Jan. 1, 2013.
Finally, a little-noted provision of the Fiscal Cliff deal
repealed the CLASS Act—a financially untenable long-
term care program created by Obamacare. Heritage’s
Butler hailed the provision as “the permanent removal
of a vital organ of Obamacare.”
As 2012 ended, Obamacare was still alive and kicking.
But it remained deeply unpopular with the American
people at large, its future as yet uncertain.
Chas
Geer
Sen. John Barrasso, R–Wyo., an orthopedic surgeon, describes how
the new law threatens fundamental liberties during our March 22
“Obamacare on Trial” panel discussion.
Costs will
INCREASE:
61%
Don’t know:
29%
No increase:
10%
Arecentsurveyfoundsixoutoften
employersexpectObamacareto
increasetheirhealthcarecosts,and
one-thirdofthosebelievethe
increaseswillbe5percentorhigher.
Nearlyone-thirdofthosesurveyed
didn’tknowhowthelawwould
affecttheircosts.
Employers: Obamacare will
increase health care costs
Less than 1%:
10%
Increases of
5% or more:
20%
3% to 4%:
14%
1% to 2%:
17%
12 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Fighting to Keep America Strong
“To be prepared for war is one of the most
effectual means of preserving peace.”
—GEORGE WASHINGTON
W
ill America’s big stick be whittled to a twig?
President Obama’s budget proposal for
Fiscal Year 2013 would cut annual defense
spending to $544 billion—a drop of more than 22 per-
cent since 2010. The Budget Control Act of 2011 calls for
another $500 billion, across-the-board cut in defense to
be phased in over a nine-year period, starting in 2013.
Even Defense Secretary Leon Panetta admitted that
75 percent of the cuts in the President’s FY2013 pro-
posal would damage our military capability. America
would have fewer boots on the ground, ships at sea, and
sorties in the sky.
Under the leadership of James Carafano, Heritage’s
Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies quickly mobi-
lized to staunch the budgetary bleeding and begin laying
the groundwork to rebuild our aging and worn military.
Heritage joined forces with the American Enterprise
Institute and the Foreign Policy Initiative to form the
Defending Defense Coalition, dedicated to preserving a
strong national defense. Experts from all three organi-
zations jointly conducted dozens of briefings on the Hill,
laying out America’s critical defense needs and what it
would cost to meet them.
Leaderslistened. HouseBudgetCommitteeChairman
PaulRyan(R–Wis.)puttogetheraresponsiblefiscalplan
thatmadedefenseapriorityanddeferredsequestration.
DeclaringMaytobe“ProtectAmericaMonth,”Heritage
presentedaseriesoflecturesandpaneleventshighlighting
theneedforCongresstoprovidefundingadequatetomeet
itsconstitutionalobligationto“providefortheCommon
Defense.”Tohelpspreadthewordonline,weproduceda
three-partvideoseries,“AmericaatRisk,”thatoutlined
howtheproposedcutswouldundercuttroopreadiness,gut
modernizationprogramsneededtomeetfuturethreats
andleavethedefenseindustrialbaseintatters. Theseries
earnedmorethan100,000viewsonYouTube.
Top: In June 14 testimony before the Senate Committee on Foreign
Relations Committee, Steven Groves, our Bernard and Barbara
Lomas Senior Research Fellow, explains how the UN Law of the Sea
Treaty threatens U.S. sovereignty posed. Former Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld (right) echoed Groves’ concerns. Above: Sen.
John Kyl, R–Ariz., makes the case for a strong national defense
May 10 at Heritage’s annual Jesse Helms Lecture.
Face to Face Photography
Face
to
Face
Photography
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 13
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Inthewaninghoursof2012,Congressfinallymanaged
topassadefenseappropriationsbill. Itprovided$1.7
billionmorethanthePresidentwantedandrestricted
thePentagon’sabilityto“retire”keytypesofshipsand
aircraft. ItalsorequiredtheMissileDefenseAgencyto
identifytwoEastCoastlocationsbestsuitedtoprotect
thehomelandfromthegrowingballisticmissilethreat.
Missile Defense: Now More than Ever
Baker Spring, Heritage’s F.M. Kirby Research Fellow
in National Security Policy, has long advocated an East
Coast site to defend against the growing threat from
Iran. But in 2012, the mild-mannered Spring became
widely known as a passionate advocate of U.S.–Israeli
cooperation in missile defense research. His analysis
that the joint endeavor was making tremendous tech-
nological progress was proven true in November. That’s
when Hamas released a barrage of missiles at Tel Aviv.
Israel’s“IronDome”systemsavedcountlessIsraeli
lives—andobviatedtheneedforafull-scalemilitary
advanceonGaza. BothhousesofCongresssubsequently
movedtoboostfundingfortheU.S.–Israelicollaboration,
withtheHouseapprovinganadditional$900million.
Getting Cyber-Security Right
Heritage remains a leading proponent of improving
cyber-security in both public and private sectors. But
we know a bad bill when we see one.
Heritage Visiting Fellow Paul Rosenzweig conse-
quently went before the Senate Judiciary Committee
to testify against Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s
misguided cyber-security bill. The proposal sought to
address dynamic and evolving threats through a clunky
regulatory approach. Rosenzweig’s response: Better to
wait, and get it right.
HeritageanalystDavidInserrapickedupthat
themeinhiscommentary“Cyber-SecurityLegislation
ShouldBeDoneWellorNotatAll.”SenatorKayBailey
Hutchison(R–Texas)readtheentirepiecealoudon
theSenatefloor. Reid’sproposalfailedintheSenatein
August…andagaininNovember,whenadvocatesmistak-
enlythoughttheyhadmutedoppositiontothemeasure.
Congress also voted to extend the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act for another five years.
Heritage has been a strong supporter of the bill, which
allows the government to monitor phone calls and
emails of suspected overseas spies and terrorists with-
out obtaining a warrant for each intercept. President
Obama signed the bill on Dec. 31.
James Jay Carafano, Heritage Vice President for Defense and
Foreign Policy, discusses how digital media such as Twitter are
helping shape armed conflicts in the modern era. Joining him on the
panel is Steve Ressler (right), founder of GovLoop, an online social
network for government workers.
Chas
Geer
Advances in Homeland
Security—2012
Washington embraced several commonsense reforms
long advocated by Heritage:
The Department of Homeland Security acknowledged
that the 2007 mandate to screen every cargo container
entering a U.S. port is unworkable and unnecessary.
A Customs and Border Protection official informed
Congress it already screens all “high-risk” cargo and
has never encountered terrorist weapons or explosives.
Enough is enough!
DHS officials proposed changing the way it awards
Homeland Security grants, switching from a “pork-barrel”
model in which every congressional district got a piece of
thepietoatargeted,risk-based,competitivegrantprocess.
A report from the Defense Department’s Office of the
Inspector General included several Heritage recommen-
dations regarding State Defense Forces—a low-cost,
high-quality way to beef up capacity to respond to man-
made or natural catastrophes striking the homeland.
The U.S. Visa Waiver Program admitted Taiwan.
Heritage advocates expansion of the program, which
strengthens ties with friendly nations while improving
security screening.
The Senate passed a House-approved bill requiring
that the Haqqani Network be designated a Foreign
Terrorist Network—a move championed by Senior
Research Fellow Lisa Curtis since September 2011.
14 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Rule of Law—Linchpin of Freedom
and Opportunity
“Without justice being freely, fully, and impartially administered, neither our persons,
nor our rights, nor our property, can be protected.”
—JOSEPH STORY, COMMENTARIES ON THE CONSTITUTION, 1833
H
eritage’s Center for Legal and Judicial Studies
remained in the vanguard of the movement to
protect the fundamental freedoms and civil
rights of all Americans.
It was a Heritage publication that first laid out the
constitutional case against the individual mandate to
buy health insurance in the Affordable Care Act. And
though the Supreme Court ruling last June did not
provide the knock-out blow we had anticipated, it did
impose important limits on Congress’s power to regu-
late under the Commerce Clause that will be useful in
future cases. Moreover, it struck down the Obamacare
provision that would have coerced the states to extend
Medicaid coverage well beyond those living in poverty.
Fighting Overcriminalization
Our legal experts tackled other pressing issues, such
as the growing problem of overcriminalization—where
Congress creates (or allows federal regulators to create)
criminal penalties for actions that should, at most, con-
stitute civil infractions.
Senator Rand Paul (R–Ky.) declared himself a huge
fan of One Nation Under Arrest, Heritage’s seminal work
on overcriminalization, and became an indefatigable
champion of the cause.
AfterconsultingSeniorLegalFellowPaulLarkinand
otherHeritageexperts,SenatorPaulintroducedS.3361,
theWritetheLawsAct. Itwouldeliminateregulations
carryingcriminalpenaltiesunlessCongressre-passed
thoseregulationsasstatutes. TheSenatoralsosponsored
anamendmenttotheFoodandDrugAdministration
SafetyandInnovationActthatwouldrequireproofthat
apersonhadacted“knowinglyandwillfully”toestablish
acriminalviolationofthatlaw—astancedrawndirectly
fromHeritage’sWithoutIntentreport.
Paul also introduced S. 2062, the Freedom from
Overcriminalization and Unjust Seizure Act. Like its
House companion, introduced by Representative Paul
C. Broun (R–Ga.), it aims to defang the Lacey Act—a law
that makes it a crime for Americans to violate foreign
laws, whether they could reasonably be expected to
know those laws or not.
Keeping Elections Free and Fair
Heritage firmly believes that Congress and the states
must guarantee that every eligible individual is able to
vote, and that his or her vote will not be stolen by fraud.
And 2012 was the busiest year yet for our Voter Integrity
“One man, Hans von Spakovsky, a right-wing lawyer
and legal fellow at the Heritage Foundation, found
an attentive audience for … his long-held convic-
tion that voter fraud was rampant. … The result has
been a rash of new state laws—at least 25. …”
		 Liberal Activist Nancy K. Kaufman,
The Huffington Post, Jan. 8, 2013
Face to Face Photography
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 15
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Project, led by Senior Legal Fellow Hans von Spakovsky,
a former official in the Justice Department’s Civil Rights
Division and Federal Election Commissioner.
Von Spakovsky rebutted liberals who insist voter
fraud doesn’t exist, debunked pseudo-academic studies
purporting to show that voter ID laws would “repress”
the vote, and countered Department of Justice (DOJ)
attempts to block state reforms from taking effect. He
spoke frequently on the topic and, with journalist John
Fund, co-authored the best-selling Who’s Counting?
How Fraudsters and Bureaucrats Put Your Vote at Risk.
Von Spakovsky made a difference. Florida used
his arguments to parry DOJ objections to its attempt
to purge noncitizens from the state’s voter rolls. The
Mississippi Secretary of State cited von Spakovsky’s
research to rebut DOJ objections to that state’s
new voter ID law. The court ruling that upheld
Pennsylvania’s voter ID law relied on his work as well.
Immigration, Criminal Sentencing,
and More
Our Legal Center’s influence didn’t end there. Twice
within a two-week period, its work was cited in Supreme
Court briefs. A Feb. 8 amicus brief by the Landmark
Legal Foundation cited a Heritage Legal Memorandum
by von Spakovsky and Senior Legal Fellow Charles
Stimson on the Arizona immigration law. The scholars
argued that providing in-state tuition to illegal aliens
violated federal law.
The previous week, the State of Alabama’s brief in
Miller v. Alabama cited Adult Times for Adult Crimes:
Life without Parole for Juvenile Killers and Violent
Teens—a report by Stimson and Heritage Visiting Fellow
Andrew Grossman.
Perhaps the most moving moment of the year came
with a name change. In October the center was offi-
cially named the Edwin Meese III Center for Legal and
Judicial Studies, in honor of its long-time chairman.
While Meese announced his “semi-retirement” from
Heritage, the former Attorney General remains as our
Ronald Reagan Distinguished Fellow Emeritus. The
Center’s reins now rest in the hands of David Addington,
Senior Vice President for Legal and Judicial Policy.
Honoring Ed Meese
The Heritage Foundation thanks the following members
for their generosity in support of the Edwin Meese III
Center for Legal and Judicial Studies:
Mr. David S. Addington
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Amos, Jr.
Mrs. Billie I. Bowles
Mrs. Anne Coors
Mr. and Mrs. Gene J. D’Agostino
Mrs. Renell Dubay
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Flemer
Mr. and Mrs. Ed W. Gilbertson
Mr. and Mrs. William Grewcock
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Grossman
Mr. and Mrs. Kevin S. Kookogey
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Mair
Mr. and Mrs. William Middlemas
Mr. and Mrs. Herman J. Obermayer
Mr. and Mrs. Dick J. Randall
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rumpel
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Schultz
Mr. Greg Sheehan
The Estate of S. Harrow Smith
Dr. and Mrs. Leo G. Watson
Mr. William M. Young, Jr.
The Robert and Audrey Zinser Charitable Foundation
Edwin Meese III (left) receives Bradley Prize from Michael
W. Grebe, President and CEO of The Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation. Grebe called Meese “an invaluable public servant”
wholly dedicated to “upholding the rule of law and making the
nation more secure.”
Left: Former Rep. Artur Davis, D–Ala., (right) talks about ensuring
the integrity of elections during a July 26 all-star panel discussion
led by Todd Gaziano (left), Director of our Meese Center for Legal
and Judicial Studies.
Lynde
and
Harry
Bradley
Foundation
16 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
O
dd but true: The Agriculture Department
wants poultry farmers to give every chicken
in America an individual ID. That “fowl” idea
was just one example of regulatory excess featured in
“Tales of the Red Tape,” an eye-opening series of online
reports by Heritage Research Fellow Diane Katz.
In March, Katz teamed with Senior Research Fellow
James Gattuso to produce “Red Tape Rising: Obama-
Era Regulation at the Three-Year Mark.” The report
documented the addition of $46 billion in annual regula-
tory costs since President Obama took office. A Drudge
Report link to the study drove heritage.org traffic to an
all-time high.
The duo scored another big media hit at year’s end.
Their column on “The 10 Worst Regulations of 2012”
appeared in more than 30 newspapers. It sparked howls
of outrage over bureaucracy run amok and letters to
editors coast-to-coast.
Fending off Taxmageddon
Throughout the year, the specter of an auto-
matic, $494 billion tax hike loomed. Heading off
“Taxmageddon”—a key component of the Fiscal Cliff—
became a top Heritage goal.
Senior Policy Analyst Curtis Dubay documented
how the tax hikes—slated to start Jan. 1, 2013—would
damage American wallets, wages, job creation, invest-
ment and economic growth. His research grabbed
attention. Sean Hannity read from it on air. The Wall
Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, Politico, NPR and
others cited it as well.
As Heritage researchers continued to demonstrate
how much was at stake, their work became the talk of
Washington, too. Again and again, Heritage research
cropped up in congressional websites, speeches, col-
umns and TV interviews.
Our findings drove home a fundamental truth:
America’s deteriorating fiscal condition arises
from excessive spending, not insufficient taxation.
Unfortunately, Congress could not muster the will to
act boldly. Instead, lawmakers dodged the Fiscal Cliff
by letting income taxes rise on those earning more
Above: Heritage Senior Policy Analyst James Sherk explains how
labor unions inflate costs and infringe on employee rights, as part of
a March 20 panel featuring former National Labor Relations Board
member John Raudabaugh (center) and former union organizing
chief Rian Wathen. Top opposite: Rep. (now Senator) Tim Scott,
R–S.C., makes the case for the proposed Employee Rights Act earlier
at the same event.
“[W]e still find the greedy hand of government thrusting itself into every corner and
crevice of industry, and grasping the spoil of the multitude.”
		 —THOMAS PAINE, RIGHTS OF MAN, 1791
Exposing Excessive
Regulation and Taxation
Chas
Geer
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 17
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
than $450,000 ($400,000 for single filers) and saddling
all American workers with higher payroll taxes. More
Obamacare taxes also came online, including a first-
time-ever payroll tax on investment income.
There was, however, one silver lining to this largely
bad deal: The Bush tax cuts were made permanent for
most Americans. Taxpayers could also take comfort that
one of Obamacare’s worst provisions, the Community
Living Assistance Services and Supports Act—adamantly
opposed by Heritage—was finally put to death.
Federal Pay, Fannie Mae, and More
It’s hard for free enterprise to flourish when govern-
ment pays itself better than those who pay the taxes.
Heritage analysts James Sherk and Jason Richwine
documented the income inequality between federal
workers and their private-sector counterparts.
Their findings were featured in a CBO report that
was a major factor in the February vote by the House to
extend a temporary pay freeze for members of Congress
and civilian federal workers through 2013. In June, a
Government Accountability Office report on federal pay
prominently featured their work as well.
In the final quarter of 2012, Heritage released four
special reports exploring how elimination of mort-
gage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would affect
the housing market. The conclusion: Not much at
all. Senior Research Fellow David John began briefing
Hill staff interested in pulling the plug on Fannie and
Freddie and restoring free-market principles to the U.S.
housing market. The issue should ripen in 2013.
Chas Geer
With charts and statistics, Heritage revealed the
sorry state of our nation’s finances. Our 2012 Federal
Budget in Pictures attracted nearly a million page
views online. “Federal Spending by the Numbers” has
been our most popular research publication since its
release in October.
The Problem is Spending!
18 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Promoting Opportunity over Dependency
“[O]nce someone loses the habit of fending for
himself, it becomes difficult for him to reacquire
it, and he becomes dependent on the state for the
rest of his life.”
	 —EDWIN J. FEULNER AND BRIAN TRACY,
THE AMERICAN SPIRIT, 2012
I
n fiscal year 2011, one in four American children
was on food stamps. That news stunned many, but
it came as no surprise to Heritage, where we have
tracked the rising tide of dependence for years.
In February, our 2012 Index of Dependence on
Government revealed that more than 67 million
Americans depend on federal assistance for everything
from food, shelter and clothing to college tuition and
health care. Moreover, they received benefits worth, on
average, $32,748—more than the average American’s
disposable personal income of $32,446.
While the number of Americans receiving federal aid
rises, the number of federal taxpayers continues to drop.
William Beach, Director of our Center for Data Analysis
and Index co-author, noted: “At some point, this unsus-
tainable fiscal model will collapse.”
Building Support for
Right-Sizing Government
Of course, Heritage has already developed a plan
to turn back the tide of dependency, balance the bud-
get and right-size government. Entitled Saving the
American Dream, it reached a major milestone in 2012.
On May 8, Senator Mike Lee (R–Utah) introduced S.
Con. Res 44, a budget resolution modeled entirely on the
policies and reforms contained in Saving the American
Dream. Lee’s proposal stood in direct competition with
both the President’s budget and the budget advanced by
the House Republican leadership.
Top: At a May 22 lecture hosted by Heritage Vice President Michael
Franc (left), Sen. Tom Coburn, R–Okla., says the nation’s debt woes
result from shortsighted decision-making by both political parties.
Above: Senior Vice President David Addington listens March 22
as House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, R–Wis., walks
through critical aspects of the 2013 spending plan.
Chas
Geer
Face to face Photography
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 19
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Intheend,theSenatepassednobudgetatall. ButS.Con.
Res44didattract17votes—17morethanthePresident’s
budget!. Thatgivesusacadreofsenatorscommittedto
supportingourplan. Anduponthat,wewillbuild.
While establishing a congressional beachhead from
which we can advance Saving the American Dream, we
also cultivated support elsewhere. Heritage experts
briefed dozens of state-based and national think tanks,
as well as grassroots activist groups such as Americans
for Prosperity and the National Taxpayers Union.
Distinguished Fellow Stuart Butler, Director of our
Center for Policy Innovation (CPI) and a key architect
of the plan, hit the road to explain to senior citizens
how we would recast—and thereby save—Medicare and
Social Security. By video conference, he spoke to more
than 450 local leaders in 27 states, advocating reform
as a member of AARP’s Town Hall Education Campaign.
He also spelled out our proposed reforms in The AARP
Bulletin, the largest-circulation magazine in America.
Our work was discussed at events all over the country,
involving almost 4 million Americans.
“Unthinkable” Reforms Now Thinkable
Headway for Heritage’s entitlement reforms was evi-
dent even in the presidential election. Representative
Paul Ryan’s Medicare reform proposals track closely
with those in Saving the American Dream. Upon his
selection as the Republican Vice Presidential candidate,
President Obama’s campaign relentlessly attacked his
ideas. However, as Investor’s Business Daily noted, “this
presidential race may go down as a major turning point
in American politics: when the third rails of Medicare
and Social Security lost their shock value.”
NBC pollster Peter Hart called Medicare “the dog
that didn’t bark” in this election. In the end, seniors
supported Romney over Obama 54 percent to 46 per-
cent. The public’s increasingly evident willingness to
entertain bold changes to entitlement programs bodes
well for Saving the American Dream.
“Your informative analysis sharpened our ideas and
helped make the plan stronger and even better for
future Medicare beneficiaries.”
—Representative Wally Herger, in a letter to
Heritage’s Center for Data Analysis
Marketing Associate Joshua Shepherd answers questions about
Heritage’s Saving the American Dream plan in Tampa, Fla., one of
scores of stops made across the country during a 10-month national
bus tour promoting the plan.
Annual Spending (2012)
Discretionary Spending
Cuts Alone Will Not
Balance the Budget
Annual spending on entitlement
programs is massive compared to
other federal spending priorities.
Cutting discretionary spending is
necessary, but cuts to foreign aid
alone or pulling out of Afghanistan
will not close the deficit. Entitlement
programs must be reformed.
Global War
on Terrorism
$115.1 billion
Foreign Aid
$24.2 billion
Corporation for
Public Broadcasting
$445 million
Entitlements
(Medicare, Medicaid,
Social Security, and other
mandatory programs,
plus their net interest)
$2.48 TRILLION
NASA
$17.6 billion
Benjamin
Meyers
Photography
20 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
G
overnment has spent $20 trillion in its war on
poverty … and the poverty rate remains stub-
bornly high. Conservatives deplore the growth
of the welfare state—not just because it’s so expensive,
but because it erodes institutions of civil society that
address social ills far more effectively.
Liberals, however, have great faith in the benevo-
lence and efficacy of government. To them, wel-
fare spending signifies compassion, and provisions
that encourage welfare recipients to find work are
stone-hearted.
And so it was that, on July 12, the Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS) released a policy
directive that essentially undid the work requirement
at the heart of the Welfare Reform Act of 1996. Heritage
immediately swung into action.
“As soon as the HHS memo was issued, [Heritage
analyst Robert] Rector raised the clarion call that
Obama, through stealth, was gutting the law …,”
reported Glenn Kessler of The Washington Post.
Rector and his colleague, Katherine Bradley,
explained how the directive’s waiver of work require-
ments would reverse the gains made by the ’96 reforms.
Their warnings were carried by The New York Times, The
Wall Street Journal, Associated Press, PBS NewsHour,
C-SPAN, NPR and numerous other media outlets.
Fighting to Preserve Religious Freedom
In 1974 Gerald R. Ford warned, “A government big
enough to give you everything you want is a government
big enough to take from you everything you have.” In
2012, the Administration that was big enough to give us
Obamacare tried to force employers to provide certain
preventive health coverages, even if it would betray
their religious beliefs.
In January, HHS announced it would finalize a
regulation requiring all health plans to cover abortion-
inducing drugs, sterilization procedures and contracep-
tives. The mandate’s narrow exemption applied only to
formal houses of worship. It offered no relief for indi-
viduals or other religious employers—not even religious
schools, hospitals and charities.
Public outcry ensued. On Feb. 10 a flustered
President Obama and HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius
“The importance of piety and religion; of industry and frugality; of prudence, economy,
regularity and an even government … all are essential to the well-being of a family.”
			 —SAMUEL ADAMS, LETTER TO THOMAS WELLS, NOVEMBER 22, 1780
Valuing the Dignity of Work,
the Rights of the Religious
Above: Sen. Roy Blunt, R–Mo., a leader in the fight against
Obamacare’s intrusion on conscience and religious liberty,
addresses the issue in a Feb. 13 lecture. Top opposite: DeVos Center
Research Fellow Dominique Ludvigson (left) hosts a lively July 31
panel analyzing recent efforts to redefine marriage. Joining the dis-
cussion were National Organization of Marriage President Brian
Brown, Bishop Harry Jackson, Jr. and law professor Teresa Collett.
Chas
Geer
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 21
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
promised they would find a way to “accommodate”
deeply held beliefs of religious employers. Secretary
Sebelius also promised a “temporary safe harbor” to
religious nonprofits that would supposedly delay
enforcement of the mandate until August 2013.
JenniferMarshall,DirectorofourDeVosCenterfor
ReligionandCivilSociety,andEdmundHaislmaier,Senior
ResearchFellowinHealthPolicy,promptlylabeledthose
promises“squidink.”Theywereright. Justfivedaysafter
promising“accommodation,”theAdministrationfinal-
izeditsoffensiverulewithoutanychangewhatsoever.
Throughout 2012, Heritage rallied opposition to the
mandate, through regular meetings of our Religious
Liberty Forum and ad hoc collaborations with allies
such as the Alliance Defending Freedom and the Becket
Fund for Religious Liberty. To alert the public, our ana-
lysts penned dozens of columns and did scores of radio
and TV interviews.
Other objectors—secular as well as religious—took
legal action.
To date, 43 lawsuits representing more than 110
plaintiffs have been filed challenging this egregious
assault on religious liberty. In December, Federal
District Court Judge Brian Cogan ruled that the suit by
the Archdiocese of New York could move forward, not-
withstanding Sebelius’ promise of “temporary safe har-
bor” for certain nonprofit religious employers.
“The First Amendment does not require citizens to
accept assurances from the government that … it will
take ameliorative action,” Judge Cogan wrote. “There
is no, ‘Trust us, changes are coming’ clause in the
Constitution.”
Before taking the stage for a Feb. 27 panel discussion on why more
women see Obamacare as a threat to religious liberty, DeVos Center
Director Jennifer Marshall (left) welcomes business consultant Pia
de Solenni, writer-commentator Kate O’Beirne, and policy analyst
Hadley Heath.
Sen. Orrin Hatch, R–Utah, lambasts President Obama’s uni-
lateral welfare “reform” action in Sept. 19 remarks at Lehrman
Auditorium. “Gutting welfare work requirements … without con-
gressional input is simply unacceptable and cannot be allowed to
stand,” Hatch said.
Face
to
Face
Photography
Chas
Geer
Face to Face Photography
22 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Producing Energy, Protecting the
Environment—The Right Way
“History has shown that command-and-control policies are inherently inefficient and often
counterproductive. … a sustainable and productive system of environmental stewardship depends
on a free people.”
—ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION: EIGHT PRINCIPLES OF THE AMERICAN CONSERVATION ETHIC, 2012
J
ust before Christmas, American Electric Power
announced it would shut Big Sandy. The EPA
Grinch had struck again.
The coal-fired plant in Eastern Kentucky was the
latest casualty of environmental regulations that give
utilities a cruel choice: Spend billions to retrofit coal-
burning plants or close them.
Big Sandy’s shutdown will cost jobs at the plant and
in local mines—and raise area electricity rates 8 percent.
“The impact on the economy here is just going to be dev-
astating,” said Kentucky House Majority Leader Rocky
Adkins, D–Sandy Hook.
Getting Environmentalism Right
The Left has “owned” the environmental movement
for decades. Whatever ails the environment, their solu-
tion is always the same: more regulation and higher con-
sumer costs. In 2012, Heritage set out to change that.
In June, we published Environmental Conservation:
Eight Principles of the American Conservation Education.
World magazine hailed it as “a publication that has the
potential to change the conversation about environ-
mentalism in America.”
A basic tenet of Environmental Conservation: The
people—and the economy—are best served when energy
and environmental policy is directed by free markets,
Top: Senior Research Fellow Jack Spencer appreciates a point
made by Sen. Lamar Alexander, R–Tenn., in his March 7 argument
against taxpayer subsidies for “Big Wind” producers. Above: Our
Environmental Conservation report, regarded by some as a debate
“game-changer.”
Chas Geer
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 23
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
not governments. Governments use subsidies and
regulations to reward their supporters and punish their
opponents. Free markets will produce the most energy
at the cheapest cost.
Debunking Anti-Nuclear Myths
Those points were raised in Powering America,
Heritage’s new documentary on nuclear energy.
Released in March, the film debunks anti-nuclear myths
and gives viewers a behind-the-scenes look at how
nuclear energy really works.
The film aired repeatedly on The Documentary
Channel and prompted numerous speaking engage-
ments for Jack Spencer, Heritage’s top nuclear energy
analyst. We also took Powering America on the road
for screenings before academic, industry, technical
and community organizations across the country. The
March premiere in Washington attracted high-level
officials from government and industry. The “road
tour” ended in San Diego with a November airing at
the nation’s premier conference on nuclear issues: the
annual meeting of the American Nuclear Society.
Energy Policy that Makes Sense,
not Subsidies
The tide began to turn against subsidy-happy energy
policy in 2012. Not only were no new energy subsidies
established during the year, but progress was made on
rolling back existing ones. Several bills to end special tax
treatment for specific energy sources were introduced,
and the House passed a bill to prevent future Solyndras.
Heritage’s message regarding the evils of energy sub-
sidies really took hold when Congress took up the NAT
GAS Act. An only-in-Washington type of bill, it called
for subsidizing the natural gas industry—while also
levying a new tax on natural gas.
When originally introduced in 2011, passage was
considered inevitable. But Heritage released a stream
of research papers—backed up with congressional staff
briefings—that demonstrated why the market-meddling
measure was wholly unnecessary. For one thing, private
industry was already expanding natural gas production
and use without government handouts.
Ultimately, 20 Congressmen “saw the light” and
withdrew sponsorship of the bill—an unprecedented
about-face. And, as the time approached for the Senate
to vote on the bill, Heritage Action made sure lawmak-
ers got the message directly. In just two days, their
grassroots information campaign generated more than
4,500 phone calls to Senate offices. The bill went down
to defeat.
Afewmonthslater,sodidsomeill-consideredamend-
mentstoatransportationbill. Theso-calledStabenow
Amendments(namedforSenatorDebbieStabenow,
D–Mich.)wouldhavesweetenedexistingenergysub-
sidies,furtherdistortingthemarketandtightening
Washington’ssuffocatinggripontheenergysector.
Sen. James Inhofe, R–Okla., displays a picture of his 20 children
and grandchildren during his March 14 lecture explaining his
opposition to those who see “climate change” as an excuse to
increase government regulation of Americans’ daily lives.
Chas
Geer
Powering America, Heritage’s latest documentary, explodes the
myths promulgated by both anti-nuclear power activists and the
nuclear industry itself.
24 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Expanding Opportunity for All Peoples
“To attain freedom is mankind’s highest aspira-
tion. To use freedom wisely is mankind’s urgent
responsibility. To preserve freedom is mankind’s
continuing challenge.”
—EDWIN MEESE III, FREEDOM, 2009.
F
or generations, America advanced freedom
throughout the world. But America’s inter-
national profile has shrunk under the Obama
Doctrine. America now “engages” rather than confronts
tyrants. We prefer to “outsource” policy decisions to
international bodies. And when we do decide to lead,
we do it “from behind.”
Predictably, our competitors see U.S. reluctance to
lead as an opportunity—a chance to fill a vacuum and
advance their interests at our expense. And, so, 2012
became a time of testing on the international stage.
Arab Spring turned to Arab Winter as Islamists won
out over democratic voices in Egypt and elsewhere—an
outcome predicted months earlier by Heritage’s James
Phillips when it became clear the Administration was
content with essentially a “hands-off” approach.
WiththeMiddleEast’sincreasingvolatility,Heritage
analystsquestionedboththewisdom—andthesub-
stance—oftheAdministration’s“AsiaPivot.”TheChinese
concludedthe“pivot”rhetoricwasempty. Increasingly
belligerent,theypresseddubiousterritorialclaims
againstJapan,thePhilippines,andothers—anddeployed
navalforcestounderscoretheirseriousness. AndNorth
Koreadefiantlylaunchedanewlysophisticatedmissile—
U.N.resolutionsandthe“pivot”notwithstanding.
Making a Difference, Worldwide
Despite this discouraging climate, Heritage scored
some meaningful successes.
Above: Sen. Marco Rubio, R–Fla., addresses Cuba’s need for
a “technological revolution” at a March 21 event co-sponsored
by Google. Top: Morgan Lorraine Roach, Heritage Research
Associate, puts a question on repercussions of the Arab Spring to a
May 9 panel featuring Senior Research Fellow James Phillips and
Africa experts J. Peter Pham, Alexis Arieff and Manoela Borges.
Chas
Geer
Face to Face Photography
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 25
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Reversing long-standing policy, the U.S. adopted
Senior Research Fellow Bruce Klingner’s recommenda-
tion to let South Korea build mid-range ballistic mis-
siles. (Seoul had been restricted to rockets that could fly
no more than 300 kilometers.)
Recognizing that America is losing ground in the
public diplomacy wars, the Office of Management and
Budget asked Senior Fellow Helle Dale for written rec-
ommendations on how to improve the effectiveness of
U.S. international broadcasting.
The U.S. established Permanent Normal Trade
Relations with Russia. The bill included Heritage-
recommended provisions allowing the U.S. to impose
sanctions on individual Russian officials who abuse
human rights. Thus, it simultaneously advances U.S.
economic interests and affirms our commitment to
human rights everywhere.
Protecting American Sovereignty
When it comes to the Law of the Sea Treaty (LOST),
liberals never say “die.” The Reagan-era pact arose again
in 2012. And, again, Bernard and Barbara Lomas Senior
Research Fellow Steven Groves provided the intellec-
tual ammo needed to convince senators that the U.S.
would gain nothing from it.
The pact would place the U.S. under jurisdiction
of the International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea.
Environmental lawyers have threatened to use LOST
to sue the U.S. in the Hamburg-based court for “climate
change damages.”
LOSTalsowoulddivertbillionsinU.S.royaltiestothe
InternationalSeabedAuthorityinKingston,Jamaica,and
givethatbodycompletecontrolofdeep-seabedmining.
In July, 35 senators announced they would not con-
sider LOST until at least 2013—killing the pact for the
remainder of the year. That same month, a Heritage-
inspired “Dear Colleague” letter opposing the UN Arms
Trade Treaty collected 51 Senate signatures, killing that
pact, too.
Undeterred, Senator John Kerry (D–Mass.) called
for a quick vote on the UN Convention on Persons with
Disabilities during the lame-duck session. Fortunately,
testimony by Groves had convinced many senators that
the pact offered disabled Americans no new protections,
but threatened to put future decisions about these poli-
cies in the hands of an international committee of “dis-
ability experts” in Geneva. The pact was defeated Dec. 4.
No more treaties were brought up.
Tracking the Rise
and Fall of Economic
Freedom
Heritage unveiled its 2012 Index of Economic Freedom
at a packed Hong Kong Press conference. The
annual report documenting advances and retreats in
economic freedom across the globe garnered world-
wide media coverage. The online version of the
Index received more than 1.6 million page views in
the first quarter … and never looked back. By year’s
end, page views totaled more than 4.5 million—up
more than 40 percent over the previous, record-
setting year.
Unfortunately, the news for the U.S. was not good.
Economic freedom declined for the fifth consecutive
year, hitting its lowest mark in a decade. The big-
gest factor: the continuing explosion in government
spending and regulation.
Though Washington liberals seemed indifferent to
the warnings implicit in the Index, world leaders else-
where were inspired to do better for their people.
In the Philippines, Presidential Spokesman Edwin
Lacierda announced the government would work for
“continuous improvement” in the ratings. Citing her
nation’s low score in the Index’s Rule of Law category,
President Aquino appointed Chief Justice Maria
Lourdes Sereno “to implement the much-needed
reforms in the judiciary.”
26 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Unlocking Opportunity Through Education
“If Virtue & Knowledge are diffused among the
People, they will never be enslav’d. This will be
their great Security.”
—SAMUEL ADAMS, LETTER TO JAMES WARREN,
FEBRUARY 12, 1779
I
t’s a trap!” That was the gist of Heritage’s mes-
sage to state education officials regarding the
Administration’s push to have them embrace the
“Common Core” national standards for grades K–12.
Despite our warnings, 46 states and the District of
Columbia took the bait. They pocketed federal “Race to
the Top” grants in exchange for adopting the “Common
Core” standards. By year’s end, some were experiencing
buyer’s remorse.
English teachers were aghast at the requirement that,
by 2014, “non-fiction texts” make up 50 percent of all
assigned reading in elementary schools … and 70 per-
cent of all 12th
grade reading. Their concern: that they
would have to jettison literary masterpieces to make
room for government-approved texts such as “Health
Care Costs in McAllen, Texas” and “Executive Order
13423: Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy
and Transportation Management.”
In a hugely popular FOX News commentary, Will
Skillman Fellow Lindsey Burke noted there’s abso-
lutely no evidence supporting the notion that forc-
ing students to wade through Executive Orders will
somehow improve their critical thinking skills or oth-
erwise better prepare them for citizenship in our self-
governing society.
By year’s end, parents and teachers joined com-
mon cause. “They hate the Common Core,” The
Washington Post reported in December. A grassroots
revolt had begun, and Burke was advising states on
ways to extricate themselves from this bad educa-
tional bargain.
Expanding School Choice
Earlier in the year, Burke and Research Associate
Rachel Sheffield traveled to Louisiana to help kick off
National School Choice Week. Back in D.C., Heritage co-
hosted a lecture by then-Senator Jim DeMint (R–S.C.)
on the importance of school choice.
Two months later, Heritage returned to Louisiana
to co-host a panel discussion about a school-choice
proposal working its way through the state legislature.
More than 25 legislators attended. They left impressed.
In April, Louisiana passed the student voucher bill,
allowing students in low-performing public schools
to put their share of state education dollars toward
private-school tuition.
In September, nearly 5,000 students availed them-
selves of this opportunity. It was one of the largest sin-
gle-year enrollment increases in the history of voucher
programs nationwide.
“
Face to Face Photography
Above: Heritage interns ponder the case for school choice made by
Lindsey Burke, our Will Skillman Fellow in Education Policy.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 27
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
“
Heritage Action in Action
A
lobbying firm for freedom.” That’s how The
Washington Examiner described Heritage
Action for America, Heritage’s independent
sister organization. Combining a professional govern-
ment relations team and dedicated grassroots activists,
Heritage Action has begun to reverse Washington’s per-
verse incentive structure that encourages politicians to
embrace shortsighted political gimmicks instead of sub-
stantive policy reforms.
Washingtonisfloodedwithspecial-interestlobby-
istsandrent-seekingassociations,butHeritageAction’s
20-personteamhasprovedacounterforcetobereckoned
with. Afterconservativesdeliveredadecisiveblowto
theUnitedNationsLawoftheSeaTreaty,theAssociated
PressconcludedHeritageAction’s“oppositionwastoo
formidable.”RollCalldeclaredthespecialinterestslost
“yetanotherpolicybattletoconservativeactivists.”
Heritage Action is recruiting and training a grass-
roots army that will make its voice heard outside our
nation’s capital. Many of our legislative successes have
hinged on influential activists asking tough questions
at town hall meetings, writing well-timed letters to the
editor, and using social media to apply pressure to their
members of Congress.
In 2012, we built a field program that established a
heavy presence in 72 strategic congressional districts
across the country. In each of those districts, Heritage
Action regional coordinators identified, trained and
deployed conservative activists. We call these activists
“Sentinels” because they stand guard “in-district,” hold-
ing their elected officials accountable for what they do
in Washington.
Heritage Action’s inside-outside approach to Capitol
Hill yielded major victories in the areas of defense,
labor, regulation, energy and housing.
A telling display of grassroots power came as
Congress advanced a big-spending transportation bill.
Looking to secure “goodies” for supporters back home,
some lawmakers began calling for a return to earmarks.
Alerted by Heritage Action, our activists picked up their
phones and pens and let their Representatives know,
in no uncertain terms, that it was not a good idea. One
after another, our Sentinels received commitments that
their Members would hold firm. In less than a week, the
movement to restore earmarks was quashed.
Throughout the year, Heritage Action’s government
relations team worked with lawmakers to introduce and
support Heritage-inspired legislation. Senator Mike Lee
(R–Utah), for example, introduced a budget mirroring
Heritage’s Saving the American Dream plan and won
significant support. And Representative Wally Herger
(R–Calif.) introduced the Save and Strengthen Medicare
Act, the most complete and detailed major Medicare
reform proposal in a decade. Going forward, these plans
will be at the core of a conservative governing platform.
Heritage Action was created in 2010 to pair political
brawn with Heritage’s policy brain. And after two years,
it is wearing down the Left. As one liberal Salon colum-
nist regretfully observed, “Whether we like it or not,
Heritage Action is going to get what it wants.”
Benjamin Meyers Photography
Above: Senate staffers are briefed by Heritage Action team mem-
bers (left to right) Tripp Baird, Erin Kanoy Siefring, Josh Robbins,
and Andrew White.
28 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Preparing the Next Generation
of Conservative Leaders
“When we are planning for posterity, we ought to remember that virtue is not hereditary.”
		 —THOMAS PAINE, COMMON SENSE, 1776
O
urvisionistobuildanAmericawherefreedom,
opportunity,prosperity,andcivilsocietyflourish.At
Heritage,wetakeourvisionstatementseriously.
We also know the America we envision won’t be
“built in a day.” That’s why we’ve always invested heav-
ily in the future—shaping and sharpening the young
conservatives of today so they can help move America
closer to that vision for generations to come.
It’s why we run the largest intern program of any
think tank in America. Last year we selected 191 col-
lege students to work shoulder-to-shoulder with our
researchers, legal scholars and communications and
marketing professionals. In addition to gaining hands-
on experience developing and promoting conservative
policy solutions, these young people benefited from
more than a dozen lectures, seminars and formal train-
ing sessions featuring noted figures such as Paul Ryan,
Mark Levin and John Stossel.
It’s why our Young Leaders Program (YLP) briefed
visiting youth from more than 100 universities in 2012
alone. Each of those briefings concentrated on explain-
ing the principles of our nation’s founding.
And it’s why our YLP goes beyond bringing young
people to Washington, by reaching out to them on their
own turf. Led by Director Heather Pfitzenmaier, the
YLP team visited more than 58 college campuses in
23 states. They talked with students and faculty about
the most pressing issues before Congress and what’s at
stake for the rising generation.
TheyalsohostedeventsinChicago,Columbusand
Denvertotalkaboutthedebt,healthcareandfirstprin-
ciples. Thesegatheringsdrewyoungprofessionalscon-
cernedaboutournation’sfiscalfutureandtheirs.The
discussionsenergizedhundredsofyoungprofessionals
togetbehindtheambitiousyetcommonsensereforms
outlinedinHeritage’s SavingtheAmericanDream plan.
The breadth, depth and effectiveness of our Young
Leaders Program did not go unnoticed. In November,
the Young Conservatives Coalition presented
Pfitzenmaier with its Buckley Award. It recognizes
“individuals between the ages of 21–40 who’ve made a
significant contribution to the conservative movement
at large.” The following month, Forbes magazine named
her one of “30 Under 30” young Americans having the
greatest impact on U.S. law and policy.
Above: Heritage President Ed Feulner in his element: surrounded
by our fall class of hard-charging interns in the Allison Foyer.
Jim Oesch
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 29
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
2012 NAMED INTERNS
H.N. and Frances C. Berger Foundation Interns
Renee Davis, University of Dallas
Brendan Harrington, Yale University
Anna Jones, Clemson University
Bryan McVae, St. Mary’s College of Maryland
Ella Peterson, University of Denver
Mary H. Campbell Foundation Intern
Joseph “Wade” Miller, University of Texas at Dallas
Richard Earl Carter Intern in the Meese Center
Chelsea DeMark, American University
Gene D’Agostino Intern in the Meese Center
Ian Smith, University of British Columbia
David A. King Intern
Alex Entz, Northwestern University
Kevin Kline Intern
Ashley Shelton, Harding University
Robert Mair Interns in the Meese Center
Katie Beck, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Jonathan Levy, Northwestern University
Robert S. and Janet L. Miller Family Foundation Interns
Peyton Miller, Harvard University
Alex Van Buskirk, Azusa Pacific University
Nicholson Family Interns
Danielle Hanson, Benedictine College
Emily Reagan, Hillsdale College
Guido and Sue Pichini Intern
Aurelian Braun, Hollins University
Pilgrim Family Foundation Interns
Brooks Pendergast, St. John’s College
Kyle Niewoehner, Patrick Henry College
Doris and Richard Pistole Intern
Dylan DelliSanti, Hampden-Sydney College
Ray Foundation Interns
Tyler Viale, University of Central Florida
Daniel Roberts, American University
Katelyn Carafano, Florida State University
Hamilton Roddis Foundation Interns
Yonathan Amselem, Florida International University
Maura Cremin, University of Oklahoma
Bryan DeWinter, Missouri State University
Noelle Doundoulakis, St. Mary’s College
Suzanne El Sanadi, Grove City College
Jordan Saunders Intern
Mary Clare Reim, College of the Holy Cross
Greg Sheehan Intern
David Jackman, Guilford College
Col. Charles B. and Sally G. Stevenson Intern
George Cokeley, The Citadel
Tom Tracy Intern
Jonathan Finer, Colorado Christian University
Pedro and Ann Wasmer Intern
Samuel Dulik, Georgetown University
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation Interns
Stephanie Jaczkowski, Central Michigan University
Alexander Moen, Vanderbilt University
William M. Young Intern in the Meese Center
Marcus Bauer, Boston College
Heritage also gratefully recognizes the following members
who have named intern positions for 2013 and beyond:
Mr. and Mrs. John Bruning
G. L. Carter, Jr., Ph.D.
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Grewcock
Mr. and Mrs. Kevin S. Kookogey
Mrs. Fula Pelitti
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald B. Weinel
The Robert and Audrey Zinser Charitable Foundation
Heritage interns and their mentors reminisce at the intern gradua-
tion “after party” in the Allison foyer.
Vice President for American Studies Matthew Spalding (at table)
fields questions in his office from interns curious about founding
principles.
Photos:
Benjamin
Meyers
Photography
30 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Heritage Fellows: Dedicated
to Principled Scholarship
H
eritage is home to some of the brightest conser-
vative minds in America. To assure that we con-
tinue to attract and retain exemplary scholars,
several donors graciously funded four new fellowships in
2012. As a result, we can proudly report:
■
■ Robert Alt was named the Ed Gilbertson and Sherry
Lindberg Gilbertson Senior Legal Fellow,
■
■ William Beach, Director of our Center for Data
Analysis, was tabbed as the Lazof Family Fellow,
■
■ Lindsey Burke became the Will Skillman Fellow in
Education, and
■
■ Nina Owcharenko, Director of our Center for Health
Policy Studies, is now also the Preston A. Wells Fellow
in Health Policy.
Heritage has its first named directorship, too. When
our Legal Center was rechristened in honor of Edwin
Meese, its Director gained a new title as well. Todd
Gaziano is now the John, Barbara, and Victoria Rumpel
Director of the Edwin Meese III Center for Legal and
Judicial Studies.
These five outstanding scholars join the ranks of
Heritage’s other named Fellows:
David L. Coffey Fellow in Government Studies
Danielle Doane
Marilyn and Fred Guardabassi Fellow in Media
and Public Policy Studies
Kenneth McIntyre
Grover M. Hermann Fellow
in Federal Budgetary Affairs
Patrick Louis Knudsen
Jay Kingham Fellow in
International Regulatory Affairs
Brett D. Schaefer
F.M. Kirby Research Fellow
in National Security Policy
Baker Spring
Mark A. Kolokotrones Fellow in Economic Freedom
Ambassador Terry Miller
Bernard and Barbara Lomas Fellow
Steven Groves
Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow
Nicolas Loris
Margaret Thatcher Senior Research Fellow
Luke Coffey
Norman B. Ture Senior Fellow
in the Economics of Fiscal Policy
J. D. Foster, Ph.D.
Jay Van Andel Senior Analyst in Trade Policy
Bryan Riley
William E. Simon Fellow in Religion and a Free Society
Ryan Anderson
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 31
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Holmes Joins Ranks
of Heritage
Distinguished Fellows
Kim Holmes, Ph.D., became Heritage’s newest
Distinguished Fellow. Holmes joined Heritage in 1985
and rose to Vice President for Foreign and Defense
Policy Studies in 1991. He took a four-year hiatus from
Heritage to serve as an Assistant Secretary of State dur-
ing President George W. Bush’s first term.
A founding editor of Heritage’s annual Index of Economic
Freedom, Holmes’ first project as Distinguished Fellow
was to complete a book fusing Heritage’s domestic and
foreign policy ideas into a compelling new vision for
America’s future. The book’s working title: Rebound:
Getting America Back to Great.
He joins these other Distinguished Fellows at Heritage:
Stuart M. Butler, Ph.D.—Distinguished Fellow
and Director, Center for Policy Innovation
Elaine Chao—Distinguished Fellow
Lee Edwards, Ph.D.—Distinguished Fellow in
Conservative Thought
Ernest Istook—Distinguished Fellow
Edwin Meese III—Ronald Reagan Distinguished Fellow
Emeritus
Jim Talent—Distinguished Fellow
Photos
David
Hills
Photography
Face to Face Photography
Robert Alt
Ed Gilbertson and Sherry Lindberg
Gilbertson Senior Legal Fellow
Nina Owcharenko
Preston A. Wells Fellow
in Health Policy
Todd Gaziano
John, Barbara, and
Victoria Rumpel Director of the
Edwin Meese III Center for
Legal and Judicial Studies
Lindsey Burke
Will Skillman Fellow in Education
William Beach
Lazof Family Fellow
Above: Distinguished Fellow Kim Holmes catches up with former
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice before hosting her national
security speech June 20 in a packed Allison Auditorium.
32 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Heritage Members:
Dedicated to Preserving Opportunity for All
S
ince its founding in 1973, Heritage has made its
mark with scholarship. Because of our rigor-
ous research and clear-sighted, commonsense
policy recommendations, Heritage’s work is read and
respected in capitals around the world. Yet, our hidden
strength remains our members: hundreds of thousands
of Americans who provide us with necessary financial
support and so much more.
Heritageremainsfarandawaythemostwidelysup-
portedthinktankintheworld. In2012,wewelcomedmore
than92,000newmembers. ContributionstoHeritageand
HeritageActiontopped$80million—anall-timerecordfor
us. Wecannotthankyouenoughforthissupport.
Many of our members offer even more than their
financial support. Their commitment to keeping
America a land of opportunity for all leads them to vol-
unteer their time and talents, as well. Some host policy
briefings for like-minded conservatives in their com-
munities. Others serve as Sentinels, keeping lawmakers’
feet to the fire when a tough vote approaches. And all of
it makes a difference.
Heritage and our members hosted eight events in
2012. From St. Louis to Honolulu, from Charlotte to
Houston, Heritage members and their guests gathered
to hear the latest developments in policy and politics
from speakers such as Steve Forbes, Jeb Bush, Steven
Moore and Art Laffer.
These meetings did more than simply inform. They
encouraged thousands of local leaders to wade into
the public debate and promote the conservative cause.
Those leaders, and hundreds of thousands more, kept in
touch with Heritage through a variety of channels:
■
■ Our main website, heritage.org, welcomed more than
11.2 million visitors—a 16 percent increase.
■
■ Our membership team e-mailed 684,000 members
and supporters each week—a 4 percent increase.
■
■ The Foundry, our blog, drew nearly 10 million
visitors—a 62 percent increase.
■
■ Our Facebook “friends” roster exceeded 500,000—
a 25 percent increase.
■
■ The ranks of our Twitter followers swelled to
260,000—a 60 percent increase.
■
■ Heritage Libertad, our Spanish-language website,
drew more than 80,000 visitors—more than three
times the traffic experienced a year earlier.
At a special event in October, Heritage Founders Kay Vee and Paul
Rhoads congratulate Ed Meese (left) upon the naming of the Edwin
Meese Center for Legal and Judicial Studies.
Shealah
Craighead
Photography
Face to Face Photography
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 33
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Allegheny Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Allison
Amway
Mr. Stuart I. Anderson
The Armstrong Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Aune
Mr. Cloyce K. Avey
Mrs. Constance Blum
The Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne F. Brady
Mrs. Carole B. Brown
David and Patricia Caldwell
The CHEAR Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Coffey
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Combs
The Richard and Helen DeVos
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Rick Gaby
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Galbraith
Mrs. Gail Garbin
Mr. and Mrs. Ed W. Gilbertson
Mr. John D. Gottlick
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Grewcock
Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Gunther
Mr. and Mrs. John Raymond
Haesler
Dr. John C. Hagan III, M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry E. Haller, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John Nils Hanson
Hanwha Group
Mr. Robert F. Hartsook
The Grover Hermann Foundation
Howard Charitable Foundation
Mrs. and Mrs. Stanley E. Huffman
Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Hunter
Mr. John C. Huntington
Mr. and Mrs. Earl Hyde, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Johnson
Claude R. Lambe Charitable
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Lazof
Mr. and Mrs. James P. Lister
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Mair
Mr. and Mrs. Jim E. McAlister
Microsoft Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. W. Barry Moore
Mr. Herbert N. Morgan
M. J. Murdock Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Joe P. Murphy
SamuelRobertsNoble
Foundation,Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Odle, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Darryle L. Owens
Mrs. Billie Pirnie
Mrs. Dawn H. Potter
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Prestele
Mr. and Mrs. Dick J. Randall
Mr. Hans G. Rieger
Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Rothwell
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rumpel
Mr.andMrs.ThomasA.SaundersIII
Mr. Richard M. Scaife
Sarah Scaife Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Selko
Mr. Greg Sheehan
Dr. Jeffrey B. Shellan, Ph.D.
Mr. Willis B. Skillman
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen H. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Smyth
Mrs. Lenore J. Stein
Mr. Joseph D. Sullivan
Mr. Pike H. Sullivan
Mr. and Mrs. Brian Tracy
Mr. Robert J. Ulrich
Mr. Curt Von Wooster
Dr. and Mrs. Leo G. Watson
Mrs. Marion G. Wells
Lillian S. Wells Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. John Wiebe
Eight members have asked
to remain anonymous.
Leading the Fight for America’s Future
S
ix years into our Leadership for America Campaign, Heritage members have made gifts, pledges, and
commitments totaling more than $544 million.
We’d like to recognize, here, the extraordinary generosity of those donors who have made contributions
and commitments totaling $1 million or more, including:
Heritage Founders Bill Amos (right) and Mark
Kolokotrones applaud remarks at the 2012
Annual Leadership Conference in Del Mar, Calif.
Heritage Associate Herman Obermayer and Trustee Meg Allen in deep conversation
at a September 12 dinner honoring Trustee J. William Middendorf’s half-century of
distinguished service to the United States.
Barnett
Photography
Shealah
Craighead
Photography
34 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
2012 HERITAGE FOUNDATION ASSOCIATES
PREMIER ASSOCIATES
Aequus Institute
Altria Client Services
Ms. Betty A. Anderlik
Dr. and Mrs. John A. Baden
Banbury Fund
Mr. Art Barter
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Baukol
Benwood Foundation
H.N. and Frances C. Berger Foundation
The Boeing Company
Mrs. Carole B. Brown
Mr. Richard Castiglia
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Coffey
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald A. Cook
Mr. George W. Cowan
Dodge Jones Foundation
eBay Inc.
ExxonMobil
Mr. James E. Gibson
Mr. Robert M. Gordon
Dian Graves Owen Foundation
Ms. Dian Graves-Stai
Mr. and Mrs. Harold E. Hamilton
Mr. K. William Hess
The Holman Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Kevin S. Kookogey
William Lange
Mrs. Judy J. Matthews
Mr. and Mrs. Ted Millice
Mr. and Mrs. Darryle L. Owens
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Patterson
The Dr. P. Phillips Foundation
PhRMA
John William Pope Foundation
Mrs. Spelman Prentice
Reynolds American
Raytheon Company
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Reite
Hamilton Roddis Foundation
Mr. Henry E. Schnell
Mr. William C. Shanley III
William E. Simon Foundation
Mr. Warren A. Stephens
Stuart Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Brian S. Tracy
Triad Foundation Inc.
Mr. Michael S. Turner
Mr. and Mrs. Jeff P. Van Dyke
Ms. Ardis Walters
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Weiner
Mr. and Mrs. H. Hunter White, Jr.
Mr. Keith C. Wold, Jr.
Ms. Karen A. Wright
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Young
EXECUTIVE ASSOCIATES
Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Adler
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Allison
Dr. and Mrs. Clifford S. Asness
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Aune
The AWC Family Foundation
Mrs. Jane Varner Beard
Mr. Robert J. Bishop
Mr. Tucker S. Birdwell
Ms. Gretchen Brooks
Peter and Gloria (Sella) Burich Fund
The Mary H. Cain Foundation
Challenge Foundation
Chevron Corporation
The Chisholm Foundation
Comcast Corporation
Delta Air Lines
Douglas and Maria DeVos Foundation
The William H. Donner Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Joyce H. Doty
Herbert H. and Barbara C. Dow
Foundation
El Pomar Foundation (Colorado only)
Dr. James H. Eldredge, M.D.
Mr. George T. Elmore
Facebook
Mr. Gregory W. Fazakerley
Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Feulner
William Howard Flowers, Jr.
Foundation, Inc.
Mr. James Fredlock
Mr. and Ms. Tracy Fu
Mr. and Mrs. Curtis Grina
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Grossman
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry L. Hayden
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Hedberg
Albert and Ethel Herzstein Charitable
Foundation
Home Depot
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph V. Hughes, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. Janek
The JM Foundation
K12 Management, Inc.
Mr. David A. King
Vernon Krieble Foundation
The Fred A. Lennon Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Levy
Mr. Mack C. Lindsey
Mr. William Lowndes III
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Mair
The Markkula Foundation
The J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott
Foundation
Greg McNece
Mr. Hal A. McVey
Mr. and Mrs. Michael T. Monahan
The Morris Foundation
Mr. Edmund G. Motz
Melvin J. and Harriet H. Naser
Charitable Trust
Mr. L. C. Neely, Jr.
Ms. Margaret J. Nelson
The Lloyd & Vivian Noble Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Nores
Northrop Grumman Corporation
Oceanic Heritage Foundation
Lovett & Ruth Peters Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Plute
Ms. Lillian Spang Rath
Mr. Clarence L. Richmond
Mr. and Mrs. Stanford Rothschild
The Joyce and Donald Rumsfeld
Foundation
Satter Foundation
Mr. Mark Shevitz
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Siegel
Mrs. Irene D. Storkan
Strong Foundation Trust
Mr. Joe Chat Sumner III
Sunmark Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Gary L. Swenson
The Sidney A. Swensrud Foundation
Mrs. Elizabeth Uihlein
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace E. Volwiler
Mr. and Mrs. Dale M. Walsh
Mr. Donald M. Wilkinson
2012 HERITAGE FOUNDATION FOUNDERS
CHAIRMAN’S CIRCLE
The Richard and Helen DeVos
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Rick Gaby
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Grewcock
Mr. and Mrs. John Nils Hanson
Howard Charitable Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Lazof
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Saunders III
Lillian S. Wells Foundation
TRUSTEE’S CIRCLE
The Armstrong Foundation
Richard F. Aster Jr. Foundation
Claude R. Lambe Charitable Foundation
Mr. Charles W. Loufek, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Joe P. Murphy
The Robert S. & Star Pepper
Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Gary L. Pilgrim
Sarah Scaife Foundation
The Thirteen Foundation
Mr. Richard Wells
FOUNDERS
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Amos, Jr.
Amway
Barbara Anderson
The Anschutz Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Barney
Barney Family Foundation
Mr. John N. Bathurst
Bell Charitable Foundation
Huddy and Bayard Boyle
The Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. John Bruning
David and Patricia Caldwell
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce L. Calhoun
Mr. and Mrs. Jack E. Caveney
The CHEAR Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Colbert, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. Leo W. Cook
Adolph Coors Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Drinkward
Erickson Family Charitable Foundation
Mr. Stanley E. Fulton
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Galbraith
General Electric Company
Gleason Family Foundation
Google, Inc.
Gardner Grout Foundation
Hanwha Group
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin F. Hawxhurst
The Grover Hermann Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. J. Robert Johnston
Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Keiser
F.M. Kirby Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Mark Kolokotrones
Mr. Leonard Litwin
Mr. and Mrs. Gregg Mamikunian
Mr. and Mrs. George L. Mayer
Microsoft Corporation
M. J. Murdock Charitable Trust
Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation, Inc.
The Frederick and Julia Nonneman
Foundation
Charles Maxfield and Gloria F. Parrish
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Pennington
Mr. and Mrs. Dick J. Randall
Ray Foundation
Patrice Richardson, M.D.
The Roe Foundation
Mr. Arthur F. Roth
Saliba Family Charitable Foundation
Searle Freedom Trust
B.K. Simon Family Charitable
Foundation
Mr. Willis B. Skillman
Mr. Larry H. Smead
Sorenson Legacy Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Uihlein
Mr. Robert J. Ulrich
Mr. and Mrs. R. Pete Vann
Mrs. Marion G. Wells
The Robert and Audrey Zinser
Charitable Foundation
Sixteen Founders have asked
to remain anonymous.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 35
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
ASSOCIATES
Mr. Bart B. Agee
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert F. Amelio
Mr. and Mrs. George Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Anderson
Mrs. Faye B. Andrews
Apex Foundation
Mr. Jeffrey B. Armour
Dr. and Mrs. Larry P. Arnn
Arrow Investment Partners
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Ascher
Mr. William S. Atherton
Mr. and Mrs. Laurel Auxier
Mr. Douglas Axen
Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Bagnoli
Mr. Eugene W. Ball
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Barkei
Mr. Peter Barrett
Mr. Timothy Barrows
Mr. and Mrs. James Bartels
Mr. and Mrs. George Beck
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce P. Bengtson
Mr. and Mrs. Roger S. Benson
Mr. and Mrs. Everett E. Berg
Mr. Robert J. Bertch
Mr. Nicholas Bez
Bialkin Family Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Bochnowski
Mr. and Mrs. Drew Boersma
Mr. Ronald Boone
Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Bouton, Jr.
Ms. Pas Rieke Boza
Ambassador and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer
Ward Breaux
Mr. and Mrs. Mark J. Brezina
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Brickman
Dr. and Mrs. Bart J. Broadman
Miss Catherine M. Brown
Brown Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Craig R. Brown
Dr. Robert W. Browne
Mr. Barry Bryant
Mr. and Mrs. August Busch III
Edward H. Butler Foundation
The Babcock and Wilcox Company
Mr. Mark A. Caldwell, Sr.
Mr. James J. Callan
Mr. and Mrs. Don M. Camp
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Campbell
Mrs. Mary H. F. Campbell
Mr. Rick Carlton
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Carter
G. L. Carter, Jr., Ph.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald L. Carter
Castleman Family Foundation
Mr. James F. Causley, Jr.
Ms. Gladys Choate, OFM
Dr. and Mrs. Armeane M. Choksi
Mr. Arthur Cinader
Mr. Robert A. Clack
Mr. and Mrs. Donald L. Clark
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Clark
The George E. Coleman, Jr., Foundation
Mr. James A. Collins
Consumer Electronics Association
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Cook
Mr. Robert P. Cornell
Corporate Press
Mr. and Mrs. Gary Coughlan
Mr. and Mrs. Garland Cox
Gilbert and Kay Cox
The Crail Foundation
Mr. Michael F. Cronin
Earlane and Sam Croom Foundation
Mr. Michael J. Cuggino
Mr. and Mrs. David Curtis
Mr. Joseph E. DaGrosa, Jr.
Mr. William R. Dahlgren
Mr. and Mrs. Jason Damron
Mr. and Mrs. O. Leonard Darling
Mr. and Mrs. Carl A. Davis
Mr. Cullen Davis
John R. and M. Margrite Davis
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Paul L. Davis, Jr.
Mr. William Davis
Dr. Mark P. DeDomenico
Mr. Lawrence F. DeGeorge
Daniel and Pamella DeVos Foundation
The Dick and Betsy DeVos Foundation
Legacy Society Members Bernard Lomas and Melisha Parker share
a courtyard conversation at the Annual Leadership Conference in
Del Mar, Calif.
Heritage Vice President John Von Kannon (left) with Peggy Jacobs
and Founder Bob Howard at the Annual Leadership Conference.
Membership Levels
Heritage welcomed more than 92,000 new members in
2012. Our range of membership levels and benefits can
accommodate all.
LEVEL	 STARTING AT
BASIC	 $25
PATRIOTS CLUB	 $100
YOUNG PRESIDENT’S CLUB	 $250
PRESIDENT’S CLUB	 $1,000
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE	 $2,500
PREMIER PRESIDENT’S CLUB	 $5,000
ASSOCIATE	 $10,000
EXECUTIVE ASSOCIATE	 $25,000
PREMIER ASSOCIATE	 $50,000
FOUNDER	 $100,000
TRUSTEES’ CIRCLE	 $500,000
CHAIRMAN’S CIRCLE	 $1,000,000
For details on the benefits attached to each level, please
call (800) 546-2843 or visit myHeritage.org.
Barnett
Photography
Barnett
Photography
36 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Gladys M. Dickson Charitable Trust
Mr. James K. Dobbs III
Mr. William J. Donahue
Donahue Family Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Vivian N. DuBose
Mr. Kenneth D. Duggin
Mr. James Dyer
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Eaton
William S. Edgerly
Mr. Douglas C. Edman
Mrs. Patty A. Edwards
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Erwin
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Etheridge, Jr.
Fairchild-Martindale Foundation
Mr. B. E. Faulkner
Mr. A. Doug Ferris
Fieldstead and Company
Mr. Donald L. Fischer
Mr. John J. Fitzgerald, Jr.
Mrs. Sara B. Fleming
Ms. and Mr. Martha F. Ford
Mr. and Ms. William C. Ford
Mr. and Mrs. Philip M. Friedmann
Mrs. E. Eiline Fritzberg
Mr. Mark Fuchs
Mr. J. James Gallagher
Mr. Larry Garatoni
The Garber Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Roland E. Garlinghouse
Mr. Bob W. Garthwait, Jr.
Dr. John Garton
Mr. Alonzo E. Gates II
Mr. and Mrs. J. Patrick Gavaghan
Mr. Richard Geary
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation
Mr. Yale Gieszl
Mr. Frederic Gifford
Mr. and Ms. Robert S. Giles
Michael E. Giobbe
Pierre F. and Enid Goodrich
Foundation
Mr. Thomas S. Gordon
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce C. Gottwald, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. Leo G. Graham
The Albert M. and Lyda M. Green
Foundation
Mr. Bob Guess
Mr. Michael Henry Guetz
Mr. Daniel L. Guild
Mr. Christopher Damon Haig
Henry E. Haller, Jr., Foundation
The Hamill Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Willis Hamilton
Mr. Jack L. Hancock
Mr. Robert F. Hartsook
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon S. Hassing
Ms. Reta K. Haynes
Mr. and Mrs. Ron J. Hazlett
The Herbold Foundation
Mr. James P. Hicks
Hitachi, Ltd.
Mr. George Hixon
Mr. and Mrs. Edson P. Holland
Mr. Gene E. Hollen
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence P. Holleran
Mr. C. R. Hoogland
Mr. Gary D. Hoover
Mr. Peter S. Hughes
Peter & Heidi Huizenga
The Huston Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Iacovetta
Immanuel Charitable Foundation
John E. and Sue M. Jackson Charitable
Trust
Mr. Kurt R. Jaggers
David Jockenhoefer
Mr. Arnold H. Johnson
Edward Jones
Mr. Raymond B. Jones, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Jude
Ms. Rebecca L. Julian
Kantner Foundation, Inc.
Mr. George W. Karpus
Mrs. Barbara D. Kasler
Dr. and Mrs. Michael F. Kelley
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Kempner
Associate Members John Baden (left) and Ray Thompson spot a
familiar face at the President’s Club meeting in October.
HeritageTrustee(andformerSecretaryoftheNavy)J.William
MiddendorfcatchesupwithHeritageAssociate(andformerSecretary
ofDefense)DonaldRumsfeldatthe2012President’sClubmeeting.
Honoring Donor Intent
When giving to any nonprofit organization, you
should be able to count on three things:
■
■ Your gift will be used to advance the organization’s
mission.
■
■ Any restrictions you place on your gift will be
honored.
■
■ You will be treated with respect.
Unfortunately, many philanthropic organizations have
broken faith with their donors.
At The Heritage Foundation, we regard your support
as a trust. We hold ourselves strictly accountable to
you, and we pledge always to respect your philan-
thropic intent. Indeed, our Articles of Incorporation
demand it. Should any major donor desire a written
contract clearly stating the purpose and intent of the
donation and how it shall be spent, we will gladly
sign it. Moreover, we make the President of Heritage
personally responsible for answering donor questions
and reporting expenditures of donor funds.
This is our solemn pledge to you: When you contrib-
ute to The Heritage Foundation, your intent as a donor
is always honored, never forgotten.
Shealah
Craighead
Photography
Shealah
Craighead
Photography
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 37
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Kirkland
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Kolber
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kozlowski
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Kurtz
LeMans Corporation
Mr. Edward C. Levy, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Lewis
Dr. and Mrs. Robert T. Lewit
Mr. and Mrs. Ed D. Ligon, Jr.
Mr. Robert D. Lindner
Mr. David L. Liptak
Dr. and Mrs. Bernard T. Lomas, Ph.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Lozick
Mrs. Marie G. MacGregor
Mr. M. Holt Massey
Mr. Kade L. Matthews
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph P. Mayer
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce R. McCaw
Mr. Peter McDermott
Mr. Walter McDonald
Mrs. Deborah McEachin
Mr. Scott William McEachin
Philip M. McKenna Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Jim H. McManus, Jr.
Mrs. Patricia K. McPherson
Mr. and Mrs. C. Edward McVaney
Mrs. Naomi N. Merchant
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Michener
Mr. Harvey L. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey E. Mills
Mr. Christopher S. Moody, Sr.
Mrs. Carol A. Morris
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Morrow
Mr. Ronald H. Muhlenkamp
Mr. Terence H. Murphree
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Murphy
Mrs. Suzanne P. Murphy
Murrill Foundation, Inc.
Bill Nasgovitz
The Negaunee Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. Newell
Annette Nibley Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce S. Nicholas
Mr. David J. S. Nicholson
Todd and Martha S. Nicholson Fund/
The Nicholson Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. David W. Niemiec
Dr. and Dr. John Nolte
Mr. and Mrs. Herman J. Obermayer
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Odle, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Rod Odom
Mr. and Mrs. James J. O’Neill
Mr. San W. Orr, Jr.
Mrs. Yvonne Oshima
Dr. and Mrs. K. Nicholas Pandelidis
Mrs. Helena P. Johnson
Frank and Nancy Parsons Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. William Payne
Mr. and Mrs. Allen B. Pease
Mrs. Fula Pelitti
William Penn Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Pepper
Mrs. Phyllis Peters
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Peterson
Philip Morris International Global
Services Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Guido M. Pichini
Dr. L. Harrison and Mrs. Janet
Pillsbury
The Hon. Jayne H. Plank
Ms. Loretta Rath Poindexter
Mr. and Mrs. Allen Bruce Porter
Mr. and Mrs. Reinhold Preik
Ms. Adrienne Price
Dr. and Mrs. Allen E. Puckett
Mr. Linus M. Raring
Dr. and Mrs. Michael E. Reif
Mr. Robert E. Richardson
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Ricketts
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce A. Riley
Mr. and Mrs. John Rivard
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Rogers
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Romaine
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick T. Rooney
Mr. Sheldon Rose
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Rothenberger
Arthur N. Rupe Foundation
Mr. Jerome D. Ryan
Mr. Thomas Sanfacon
Mr. and Mrs. Glenn Scharp
Mr. P. K. Schilling
Mr. Joseph Schimberg
Dr. Joseph F. Schneider, Jr.
Mrs. Connie Schuette
Donald D. Scifres
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Scott
Mr. Douglas Scrivner
Mrs. Verna R. Shaub
Mr. Greg Sheehan
Mr. and Mrs. Barry R. Shreiar
Louis and Nellie Sieg Fund
Richard A. Silvey
Mr. and Mrs. Warren L. Singer
Mr. David Smith
Gordon V. and Helen C. Smith
Foundation
Mr. Owen R. Smith
Mrs. Shirley M. Sontheimer
Mr. J. C. Sparkman
Mr. Scott Spriggs
Stiles-Nicholson Foundation
Ms. Diane J. Stites
Mr. and Mrs. Roger W. Stone
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Strickland
Mr. and Mrs. Kermit S. Sutton
Ms. Mary G. Swartz
Dr. Mirian H. Taddei
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry J. Tepper
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Tesarik
Mr. and Mrs. Mike Thom
Mr. Arthur Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. Raymon F. Thompson
Clifford L. Thomson
Tippins Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip N. Truluck
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Trzcinski
Mr. and Mrs. Huh Tsuei
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Tucker
Mr. J. Robert Tullis
Mr. Jack E. Turner
Steve & Cindy Van Andel Foundation
Mr. John K. Vanier
Count Ferdinand von Galen
Mr. James R. Voss
Dr. and Mrs. Bill Wagner
Mr. and Mrs. T. Urling Walker
Mr. and Mrs. Pedro E. Wasmer
Mr. Charles Reynolds Watkins
Katharine Audrey Webb Foundation
James F. Webert
Mr. and Mrs. Henri Wedell
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald B. Weinel
Mr. and Mrs. Duane M. Weise
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Weiss
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Weiss
Mr. Ernie R. West
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation
Mrs. Kim Wheeler
Mr. Keith White
Dr. and Mrs. Charles J. Willey
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew L. Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. James Wintersteen
The Woodford Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Darrell Wotta
Mr. and Mrs. Edward S. Young
Ms. Leslie Young
Mr. Dan Zimmerman
Mr. William Zimmerman
Forty-six Associates have asked
to remain anonymous.
2012 Room Commitments
Heritage members contribute to our mission in numer-
ous ways—including naming rooms in our buildings.
We’d like to recognize, here, the generosity of those
donors who made contributions and commitments to
name such facilities in 2012.
S. Harrow Smith Offices made possible by
the Estate of S. Harrow Smith
Anne Drotning Coors Executive Office Suite
made possible by Mrs. Anne Coors
Jerry and Jackie Grossman Conference Room
made possible by Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Grossman
The Armstrong Foundation Communications Suite for
Freedom made possible by the Armstrong Foundation
Don & Jo Wells Distinguished Fellows Suite
made possible by Mr. Richard Wells
Heritage Associates James and Mary Beth McGinley (left) chat
with Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist Charles Krauthammer
following his remarks to President’s Club members in October.
Shealah
Craighead
Photography
38 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
A Legacy of Opportunity for Future Generations
I
nwritingtheConstitution,America’sFounderswereconsciouslyestablishingalegacyforfuturegenerations.Their
explicitpurpose,statedinthepreamble,wasto“securetheblessingoflibertytoourselves andourposterity.”
Members of the Heritage Legacy Society share the Founders’ concern for future generations. Co-chaired by
Rae and Belden Bell of Marshall, Va., and Marion Wells of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., the Heritage Legacy Society welcomes
members who wish to contribute to our cause through their estates or other planned gifts.
Mr. Anthony J. Alfano
Mr. James R. Allen
Ms. Liz Allora
Mrs. Janice E. Anderson
Mrs. Hugh M. Askren
Mr. and Mrs. Daly R. Bales
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Bartlett
Mr. and Mrs. Hank Bathey
Mr. John N. Bathurst
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald O. Baukol
Ms. Isabelle J. Berg
Mr. Brad Biegert
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley T. Bienus
Mr. James Biggs
Mr. Jason A. Boch
Mr. Merle G. Brakefield
Mr. Frank W. Brower, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Don Brown
Mr. Jack Burke
Mr. and Mrs. Allen M. Burt
Mrs. Jean Busch
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Button
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce L. Calhoun
Mr. and Mrs. R. Craig Campbell
Mr. James M. Cantrell, Jr.
Mr. D. J. Carder
Ms. Carol Carpenter
Mr. William S. Carter
Mr. Cris G. Cavallaro
Mr. Victor Churchward
Mr. Robert Clifford
Mr. Donald Combes
Mr. Robert W. Considine
Mr. James Cordes
Mr. and Mrs. John Coussoule
Mr. S. Donald D’Alfonzo
Dr. W. M. Dallas, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Bill Descher
Ms. Linda Dick
Mr. Allen Dieter
Mr. Robert J. Dreisbach
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Edgerly
Mr. Donald Edwards
Mrs. Patty A. Edwards
Dr. James H. Eldredge, M.D.
Dr. and Mrs. A. John Elliott
Mr. and Mrs. Larry Everett
Mrs. Virginia H. Everett
Mr. Gerald H. Fickenscher
Mr. A. Wayne Field
Mr. James Fredlock
Mr. William W. Grier
Mrs. Priscilla L. Grigas
Mr. Donald D. Hall
Mr. and Mrs. Harlan O. Hall
Ms. Jane L. Hamman
Mr. Vance L. Harris
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin F. Hawxhurst
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Hedberg
Mr. and Mrs. Glenn Hersch
Mr. Gene E. Hollen
Mr. Allan D. Hulme
Mr. Al Huntoon
Mr. Harold B. Igdaloff
Mr. Thomas P. Janas
Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. Janek
Mr. James Johnson, Jr.
Mrs. Joanne Taylor Johnson
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth C. Johnson
Mr. Brent Jones
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Kellen
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Forbes Kemp, Jr.
Mr. Patrick Dennis Kennedy
Mr. Joe Kennington
Mr. James H. Ketchum
Mr. Seung Kim
Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Kimball
Mr. and Mrs. Kevin S. Kookogey
Mr. Ronald M. Krump
Mr. Robert W. Kummer, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Lee
Mr. Paul Leipprandt
Mrs. Judith G. Lopez
Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Malmer
Mr. Claudio S. Mariotta
Mr. and Mrs. Milton A. Marquard
Michael McQuade
Mrs. Naomi N. Merchant
Mrs. Dae Miller
Ms. Amy Minning
Ms. Nancy E. Moore
Ms. Katy A. Moss
Ms. Danna D. Munsey
Mrs. Ann Nall
Mr. John P. Nelson
Mr. Leslie Nesbitt
Ms. Lauren Newington
Mr. Ron Olive
Mrs. Nan Osbon
Mrs. Yvonne Oshima
Mr. and Mrs. Don Parrott
Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Pepper
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Plute
Mrs. Elaine Portnoy
Ms. Marguerite Potter
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Pruss
Mrs. Mary B. Pyle
Mr. Clarence L. Richmond
Mr. Wilson F. Rigler
Mr. Gerald F. Riseley
Mr. Arthur F. Roth
Mr. Nicholas A. Salemi
Mr. David A. Saxe
Mr. Steve Schmidt
Mr. Ralph Shelnutt
Mr. Willis B. Skillman
Mr. Charles R. Skinner
Mrs. Barbara B. Smith
Mr. Ernest W. Smith
Mr. Gerard A. Smith
Dr. and Mrs. Mark A. H. Smith, Jr., MD
William H. Smith
Ms. Margaret Snowdon
John L. Stanley
Mr. Jerome Stark
Mr. J. Hugh Steele
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Strickland
Mr. Pike H. Sullivan
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Sutton
Ms. Mary G. Swartz
Dr. Mirian H. Taddei
Mrs. Suzanna Thieblot
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Thomas
Mr. Robert O. Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Trotti, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Huh Tsuei
Mr. and Mrs. R. Pete Vann
Mr. Mark Veckman
Mr. and Mrs. T. Urling Walker
Mr. and Mrs. E.J. Wallgren
Mr. Thomas Watling
Ms. Barbara Wells
Mr. Robert Wendell
Mrs. Virginia Wheeler
Dr. and Mrs. John Wiebe
Mr. and Mrs. Christopher Williams
Mr. H. W. Williams
Mr. Robert F. Williams
Mr. Robert Wood
Mr. Harry Wu
Ms. Barbara Zerby
Thirteen Heritage Legacy Society
members wish to remain anonymous.
With gratitude, we honor the memory of those Heritage
Legacy Society members whose gifts we received in 2012:
Mrs. Lenore C. Anderson
Mr. Paul Bach
Mr. Richard Bosted
Mr. Clem F. Burnett, Jr.
Mr. R. W. Buttrey
Mrs. Erma Christensen
Ms. Josephine Comodo
Ms. Sue H. De Shazo
Mr. Harold L. Diekemper
Mr. Frederick M. Dierks
Mr. and Mrs. Cortlandt S. Dietler
Mrs. Marjorie Dresher
Ms. Donna M. Dugaw
Mr. Gordon O. Ewin
Mrs. Nona Foster
Mr. R. M. Freedman
Mr. William Gardner
Ms. Debra Hall
Mr. Joe Huskins
Ms. Miki Iwata
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce H. Jacobs
Mrs. Patricia Jager
Mrs. Eva M. Johnson
Mr. John P. Kavooras
Mr. John Keller
Mr. James S. Kinkead, Jr.
Mr. James S. Klein
Mr. Harold Leonard
Mrs. and Mr. Dixie J. Loveless
Mr. Martin H. McDonald
Mr. Ray E. McGowan
Mr. Edward Mitchonie
Mr. Elmer C. Moore
Mrs. Katherine T. Morrison
Ms. Dorothy Mullin
Mr. Morton E. Nager
Mrs. Geraldine Newcomer
Mr. Rodney M. Norris
Ms. Virginia A. Odom
Mr. Aaron B. Powers
Mrs. G. Ralston
Mr. Herman R. Rasch
Mrs. Irene Reindl
Mr. Mercer Rhodes
Mrs. Helen R. Richman
Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Riedel
Mr. Hans G. Rieger
Mrs. Dorothy E. Roberson
Mrs. Eva M. Sewall
Mrs. Natalie Sirkin
Mr. Joseph Slocum
Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Smith
Mr. Ernest N. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Roger M. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Smyth
Mr. C. Edwin Stricker
Mr. William Susen
Mrs. Mary F. Van Zanten
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Walton
Mr. Marshall D. Ward
Mr. Randall Warren
Mr. Wilfred L. Was II
Mrs. Dorothy L. White
Mr. and Mrs. Verne M. Willaman
Mr. and Mrs. Sylvan H. Wittwer
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 39
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Heritage Legacy Society Members Anne Coors
(left) and Jackie Laver visit between sessions at the
Annual Leadership Conference in Del Mar, Calif.
Heritage Founders Robert and Star Pepper review some of the books and
research papers featured at the Annual Leadership Conference.
Barnett
Photography
Barnett
Photography
Heritage Trustees Todd Herrick and Midge Decter mix and mingle
at the courtyard reception of the Annual Leadership Conference in
Del Mar, Calif.
Legacy Society Members Sherry (left) and Ed Gilbertson (second
from right) share a light moment with Ed Meese and Ed Feulner
(right) at the 2012 President’s Club Meeting.
Heritage Associate Ann Lewis and Morgan Middlemas join forces
between sessions at May’s Annual Leadership Conference.
Heritage Associate (and former Ambassador) Stephen Brauer
(right) joins a lively discussion with Heritage Trustee Steve Forbes
at an intimate member event in St. Louis.
Barnett
Photography
Shealah
Craighead
Photography
Barnett
Photography
Patti
Gabriel
Photography
40 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
Edwin J. Feulner:
36 Years of Principled Leadership
“Ed Feulner stands as one of the great
public-policy innovators of the 20th century.”
—JOHN PODHORETZ, COMMENTARY MAGAZINE,
DECEMBER 6, 2012
I
n2012,themanwhofirstenvisionedandthenbuilt
TheHeritageFoundationannouncedhewouldstep
downasPresidentonApril3,2013—the36thanni-
versaryofhispresidency.
Intheearly‘70s,Feulnerandconservativeactivist
PaulWeyrichhatchedthethen-novelideaofanindepen-
dentresearchinstituteabletoprovidelawmakerswith
soundfactsandpolicyrecommendationsconsonantwith
conservativeprinciples.WhenHeritageopeneditsdoors
in1973,FeulnerservedasaFoundingTrustee.
Four years later, he was named President. He took
charge of a staff of 25 who toiled cheek-by-jowl in a
ramshackle two-story townhouse. Under his leadership,
Heritage blossomed into an internationally-recognized
research institution with a staff of 250, state-of-the-art
offices on both sides of the Capitol, and an annual bud-
get of more than $80 million.
But Feulner built more than a lasting institution.
He built a contemporary conservative movement.
When Feulner leaves the president’s office, he won’t
sever all ties with Heritage. “We are thrilled that Ed
has agreed to stay on as Founder of the Foundation
and Chairman of our Asian Studies Center,” Saunders
announced in December. “It gives us every confidence
that, for Heritage and for the conservative movement
overall, the best is yet to come.”
The
Heritage
Foundation
Chas Geer
Top: During a 2004 visit to Heritage headquarters, Margaret
Thatcher and Ed Feulner discuss the enduring need for America
to exert global leadership. Above: Ed Feulner helps tear down the
Berlin Wall during a 1990 fact-finding trip to Europe with Heritage
Trustees and foreign policy experts.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org 41
2012
ANNUAL REPORT
Following his keynote address at Heritage’s 25th
Anniversary Dinner in Grand Rapids, Mich., House Speaker
Newt Gingrich (left) shares a laugh with Ed Feulner.
Milton and Rose Friedman join Presidents Feulner and Reagan
(and 1,500 other guests) at the Oct. 3, 1983, dinner celebrating
Heritage’s 10th
Anniversary.
Ed Feulner (right) introduces Nobel Laureate Friedrich Hayek to President
Reagan during an Oval Office visit.
Ed Feulner introduces President George W. Bush to an SRO audience in
Allison Auditorium. The Nov. 1, 2007, speech, broadcast live, reached a
TV audience of 31 million.
SeniorManagementTriumvirate: ExecutiveVicePresidentPhil
Truluck(left),VicePresidentJohnVonKannon(center),andPresident
EdFeulnershownherecelebratingtheir25th
anniversarywith
Heritage—in2002! AllthreeremainonthejobwithHeritagetoday.
Ed Feulner applauds Shelby Cullom Davis and Kathryn
Davis, winners of the first Clare Boothe Luce Award,
presented in 1991.
The
White
House
Photos:
Chas
Geer
42 Leading the Fight for FREEDOM & OPPORTUNITY
2012 Financial Statements
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION*
As of December 31, 2012
ASSETS:
Cash & cash equivalents 	 $5,420,496
Receivables	 $7,573,922
Prepayments & other assets	 $1,152,381
Total current assets	 $14,146,799
Investments 	 $117,972,173
Receivables, net	 $2,524,641
Property & equipment, net	 $62,359,728
Other assets	 $498,780
Total long-term assets	 $183,355,322
TOTAL ASSETS: 	 $197,502,121
LIABILITIES & NET ASSETS:	
Accounts payable & accrued expenses	 $10,355,826
Notes payable	 $4,672,852
Total current liabilities	 $15,028,678
Notes payable	 $14,018,555
Deferred obligations & planned gifts	 $17,304,868
Total long-term liabilities	 $31,323,423
TOTAL LIABILITIES:	 $46,352,101
Unrestricted net assets:	 	
Board designated	 $98,088,050
Undesignated	 $38,884,285
Temporarily restricted net assets	 $11,577,141
Permanently restricted net assets	 $2,600,545
Total net assets	 $151,150,020
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET ASSETS:	 $197,502,121
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES*
Year ended December 31, 2012	
OPERATING REVENUES
Contributions:
Individuals	 $59,100,988
Foundations	 $10,214,986
Corporations	 $3,648,209
Total operating contributions	 $72,964,183
Investment withdrawal	 $4,664,281
Program revenue	 $ 132,503
Rental & other income	 $ 1,547,677
Total other operating income	 $6,344,461
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE	 $79,308,644
OPERATING EXPENSES
Research	$25,033,446
Education	$22,757,678
Media & government relations	 $11,378,839
Total program services	 $59,169,963
Fundraising	$15,171,785
Management & general	 $2,119,305
Total supporting services	 $17,291,090
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES	 $76,461,053
NET GAIN FROM OPERATIONS	 $2,847,591
NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES
+ Net unrealized investment gain	 $10,853,070
+ Restricted contributions	 $5,735,415
(-) Depreciation	 $3,311,019
(-) Interest Expense	 $309,615
(-) Investment withdrawal	 $4,664,281
(-) Change in restricted net assets	 $3,232,686
TOTAL NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES	 $5,070,884
CHANGE IN NET ASSETS	 $7,918,477
NET ASSETS- Beginning of year	 $143,231,543
NET ASSETS-End of year	 $151,150,020
PROGRAM
REVENUE &
OTHER INCOME
*Preliminary results—final audited financial statements will be available on or after July 31, 2013.
MANAGEMENT
&GENERAL
FUNDRAISING
8% 3%
20%
77%
92%
CONTRIBUTIONS
PROGRA
M
S
2012 OPERATING REVENUE 2012 OPERATING EXPENSES
PRESIDENT’S OFFICE
Edwin Feulner
John Von Kannon
Cully Stimson
Kathleen Rowan
Robert Steele
Missy Stephens
Kenneth Sheffer
Mary Szwajkowski
EXECUTIVE VICE
PRESIDENT’S OFFICE
Phillip Truluck
Jean Barry
Personnel
Wesley Dyck
Karen Cook
Alexander Eurich
Christy Kortokrax
Ryan O’Donnell
Recruitment and Training Center
Kristine Bramsen
Matthew Adkins
Kyle Bonnell
Becky Turco
CENTER FOR POLICY
INNOVATION
Stuart Butler
Bob Moffit
Pamela Ouzts
DAVIS INSTITUTE
FOR INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES
Kim Holmes
Alexis Hurter
Jan Smith
Allison Center for Foreign
Policy Studies
James Carafano
Michaela Bendikova
Peter Brookes
Steve Bucci
Yvette Campos
Ariel Cohen
Helle Dale
Owen Graham
David Inserra
James Phillips
Morgan Roach
Brian Slattery
Baker Spring
Ray Walser
Jessica Zuckerman
Asian Studies Center
Walter Lohman
Dean Cheng
Joong-Kyung Choi
Lisa Curtis
Rebecca Graebner
Bruce Klingner
Derek Scissors
Kumi Yokoe
Nicholas Zahn
Center for International Trade
and Economics
Terry Miller
Anthony Kim
Ryan Olson
Bryan Riley
James Roberts
Margaret Thatcher Center
for Freedom
Nile Gardiner
Theodore Bromund
Luke Coffey
Steven Groves
Erica Munkwitz
Brett Schaefer
DOMESTIC AND
ECONOMIC POLICY
Derrick Morgan
Amanda Taylor
Center for Data Analysis
William Beach
Salim Furth
Drew Gonshorowski
Rea Hederman
David Kreutzer
John Ligon
David Muhlhausen
Jason Richwine
James Sherk
Patrick Tyrell
Center for Health Policy Studies
Nina Owcharenko
Bethany Davis
Edmund Haislmaier
Alyene Senger
Richard and Helen DeVos Center
on Religion and Civil Society
Jennifer Marshall
Ryan Anderson
Kiki Bradley
Lindsey Burke
Collette Caprara
Christine Kim
Grace Melton
Leslie Merkle
Ryan Messmore
Robert Rector
Rachel Sheffield
Sarah Torre
Andrew Walker
Thomas A. Roe Institute for
Economic Policy Studies
Alison Fraser
Romina Boccia
Curtis Dubay
JD Foster
James Gattuso
Emily Goff
David John
Diane Katz
Patrick Knudsen
Nick Loris
Jack Spencer
Katie Tubb
EDWIN MEESE III
CENTER FOR LEGAL AND
JUDICAL STUDIES
Edwin Meese III
Todd Gaziano
Tiffany Bates
Christine Carletta
Jessica Kline
Paul Larkin Jr.
John Malcolm
Leslie McClellan
Elizabeth Slattery
Jason Snead
Hans von Spakovsky
AMERICAN STUDIES
Matthew Spalding
Simon Center for Principles
and Politics
David Azerrad
Julia Shaw
Rich Tucker
Ashley Varndell
James Velasquez
Research Editors
Richard Odermatt
John Fleming
James Kidd
William Poole
Jon Rodeback
Karina Rollins
Ashley Schow
DISTINGUISHED
FELLOWS
Elaine Chao
Lee Edwards
Jim Talent
Anna Hui
POLICY PROMOTION
David Addington
Leslie Grimard
Strategic Operations
Brian Blake
Christopher Minakowski
Laura Trueman
Jessica LaHousse
Emily Vanderbush
COMMUNICATIONS
Mike Gonzalez
Georgianna Nutt
Broadcast Services
Matthew Streit
Jackie Anderson
Sarah Mills
Michelle Oddis
Israel Ortega
Digital Media and Center for
Media and Public Policy
Robert Bluey
Ericka Andersen
Patrick Frank
Lachlan Markay
Amy Payne
Michael Sandoval
Todd Thurman
Editorial Services
James Weidman
Paul Gallagher
Marguerite Higgins
Kenneth McIntyre
Rachael Slobodien
Daniel Woltornist
EXTERNAL RELATIONS
Becky Norton Dunlop
Robert Gordon
Mary Larson
Coalition Relations
Bridgett Wagner
Alex Adrianson
Lori Mashburn
Ryan Nichols
Michael Rigas
Lectures and Seminars
John Hilboldt
Adam Brickley
Andrew Parks
Young Leaders Program
Heather Pfitzenmaier
Angelise Schrader
GOVERNMENT STUDIES
Michael Franc
Mary Katherine Cavazos
Dani Doane
James Dean
Cameron Seward
Landon Zinda
MARKETING
Genevieve Wood
Lara Barger
Creative Services
Melissa Bluey
Elizabeth Brewer
Alex Harker
Joseph Rusenko
Doug Sampson
Marketing
Keesha Bullock
Pamela Hughes
Joshua Shepherd
Steven Weyrich
STRATEGY & FINANCE
Geoff Lysaught
Elizabeth Fleming
Mark Schreiber
Accounting
John Backiel
Keith Capp
Shannon Emley
James Gabele
Alyson Miller
Walter Smith
Administration
Eric Korsvall
Emily Dunham
Kevin Germany
Dorothy Hodo
Ebony Hunter
George Kryvenka
Antonio Machenguer
Omar Martell
Oscar Mendez-Cedillos
Maria Mendoza
Marvin Moon
Albert Potts
Freida Warren
Mariah Wenz
Business Support Services
George Adams
Berdie Carter
Amy Hart
Uyen Hoang
Matthew Hohman
Annette Keymist
Deon Moon
Events
Janine Brown
Brittany Balmer
Ann Beckwith
Shianne Chatarjee
Jamie Hooper
Lauren Kuhn
Kelly McNair
Mary Olds
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
Michael Spiller
Information Systems
Mark Harris
Kibreab Berhe
Jadon Ephraim
Kimberly Paduano
Michele Palmer
Seth Spaulding
Ryan Townsend
Online Communications
Timothy McGovern
Jeph Christoff
Martha Galante
Isabel Isidro
James Lawruk
John O’Keefe
Steve Sharman
Maria Sousa
Roger Spurzem
DEVELOPMENT
John Fogarty
Robert Hartsook
Michelle Lancto
Bernard Lomas
Robert E. Russell, Jr.
Development Operations
Carsten Walter
Gabriel Conger
Sarah Ferguson
Jessica Greer
Kristen Hoopes
Michelle Jehring
Anne Judge
Katherine Kraft
Jacquelyn Monaghan
Peter Murphy
Eve Newell
Charlotte Schuyler
Joseph Shattan
Samuel Walker
Major Gift Planning
Michael Barvick
Laura Ball
Anthony Campau
Randy Cestone
Jessica Dean
Steven DeBuhr
Anna DeJarnette
Rebecca Eddy de Broekert
J.B. Horton
Ellen Hubbard
DeEtte Chatterton Jones
Roxana Laing
Richard McAdams
Lori McNicoll
Jay Rinehart
Caitlin Rowan
Leah Sammons
Doug Stamps
Jeffrey Trimbath
Membership Programs
Christine Fogarty
Erin Bender
Sondra Clark
Estefania Holler
Katherine Nielsen
Candace Porter
Aaron Thompson
Mecca Turner
Nathaniel Ward
HERITAGE ACTION
FOR AMERICA
Michael Needham
Timothy Chapman
Jessica Anderson
Tripp Baird
Dustin Carmack
Dwayne Carson
Daniel Holler
Andrew McIndoe
Joshua Robbins
Katherine Rosario
Erin Siefring
John Schuler
John Shadegg
Russ Vought
Andrew White
Nathanael Yellis
AMERICAN DREAM
BROADCASTING
Ernest Istook
Kate Brewster
Matthew Schuck
(List current as of December 31, 2012)
The Heritage Foundation Staff
214 Massachusetts Avenue NE, Washington, DC 20002 
(202) 546-4400 • heritage.org
... The Heritage Foundation:
“the most important conservative organization in the country
and the most influential think tank in the world.”
—NEAL B. FREEMAN,
AMERICAN SPECTATOR, NOV. 12, 2012
“the strongest ideas machine in Washington.”
—JOHN O’SULLIVAN,
NATIONAL REVIEW ONLINE, DEC. 10, 2012
“Heritage cultivates and maintains a bench of conservative
manpower unrivaled in the policy influencing world. Indeed,
a friend from a liberal nonprofit once described going up
against Heritage as ‘fighting a well trained Army with a
pick-up team.’ ”
—LORELEI KELLY,
ROLL CALL, DEC. 18, 2012
… Outgoing President Ed Feulner:
“Four decades ago, conservatives, lacking significant support
in academia, began to build an alternative intellectual
infrastructure. Ed Feulner, founding father of the Heritage
Foundation, showed the way …”
—GEORGE F. WILL, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST
“Many come to Washington to make a difference. Few have
had the same monumental impact as Ed Feulner.”
—CAL THOMAS, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST
“Ed Feulner stands as one of the great public-policy
innovators of the 20th century.”
—JOHN PODHORETZ,
COMMENTARY MAGAZINE, DEC. 6, 2012
… Incoming President Jim DeMint:
“Congratulations Jim DeMint. Your strong voice for Liberty
will be missed in the Senate, but it will continue to resonate
across the country.”
—SENATOR RAND PAUL (R–KY.),
DEC. 6, 2012
“There is no better choice than Jim DeMint to lead this great
organization.”
—REPRESENTATIVE JIM JORDAN (R–OHIO),
CHAIRMAN, REPUBLICAN STUDY GROUP, DEC. 6, 2012
“Here’s my take on Jim DeMint and Heritage: Conservatives
should be really excited by this.”
—ERICK ERICKSON,
FOUNDER, REDSTATE.COM, DEC. 6, 2012
… The Future:
“Sen. DeMint’s move to Heritage is a sign of the conservative
movement’s strength and confirms that Heritage will remain
an intellectual powerhouse for decades to come. … an ideal fit
for the conservative movement’s leading think tank.”
—SENATOR TED CRUZ (R–TEXAS), DEC. 6, 2012
“… the building blocks are there for DeMint and the
conservative Heritage Foundation to build a powerful
operation with political clout.”
—PETER OVERBY
“ALL THINGS CONSIDERED,” NPR, DEC. 10, 2012
“What a moment for an institution like Heritage and a man
like Mr. DeMint. And what an opportunity has been handed
over by Mr. Feulner.”
—NEW YORK SUN EDITORIAL, DEC. 8, 2012
WHAT THEY’RE SAYING ABOUT …
