MAXIMUM IMPACT
RIGOROUS RESEARCH HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
BENJAMIN
MYERS
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Rigorous Research, Maximum Impact
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE PRESIDENT
It was a major turning point in world history. The American Revolution marked the start
of a novus ordo seclorum—a new order for the ages—one in which the blessings of freedom
were recognized as the birthright of all, rather than the entitlement of a privileged few.
R
onald Reagan called it “the only true revolution,”
because instead of simply exchanging one set of
rulers for another, “for the first time in all the
thousands of years of man’s relation to man…the
Founding Fathers established the idea that you and I had
within ourselves the God-given right and ability to determine
our own destiny.”
ButasReaganalsoobserved,“Freedomisnevermorethanagen-
erationawayfromextinction.Wedon’tpassitontoourchildren
inthebloodstream.Itmustbefoughtfor,protected,andhanded
overforthemtodothesame,oronedaywewillspendoursunset
yearstellingourchildrenandourchildren’schildrenwhatitwas
like in the United States when men were free.”
The Heritage Foundation’s mission is to defend the legacy of
the American Revolution as embodied in the Declaration of
Independence and the Constitution. We stand for limited gov-
ernment, individual liberty, free markets, traditional American
values, and a strong national defense.
These principles transformed a weak confederation of for-
mer British colonies into the mightiest and most successful
nation on earth. They are as valid today as they were in the 18th
JOYCE
BOGHOSIAN
Heritage members welcome incoming President Jim DeMint after a “Presidents’ Tour” meeting Jan. 24 in San Francisco.
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
century. But they are under constant attack, and defending
them requires eternal vigilance.
When The Heritage Foundation first opened its doors 40 years
ago, the Soviet Union posed the greatest danger to the survival
of liberty. The policy of “containment” had failed to stop Soviet
expansionism; Soviet-armed proxies were on the offensive
across the globe, and Soviet leaders boasted that “the correla-
tion of forces” had shifted irrevocably in favor of the “socialist
camp.” Rolling back the Soviet juggernaut became a top priority
for our fledgling think tank.
It was Heritage who sponsored the new space strategy called
“High Frontier,” which included the bold recommendation that
America develop a global missile defense system able to knock
out ballistic missiles headed toward the U.S. and our allies. The
Reagan Administration embraced that idea, and its Strategic
Defense Initiative (SDI) brought an end to the Cold War.
WeremainproudoftheroleHeritageplayedinrevivingAmerica’s
spiritandwinningtheColdWar.WestilltreasureReagan’swords
atour1990BoardMeeting:“You[were]aninvaluableresourceon
keyissuessuchastaxcuts,reducinggovernmentspending,SDI,
supporting freedom in Grenada, Nicaragua, Eastern Europe—
wherever I needed Heritage, you were there.”
Today, the Cold War is over, but our freedom remains under
siege. This time, however, the principal challenge comes from
within the United States—from the so-called “progressive”
movement. Progressives value equality over liberty, reject the
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
Team Heritage was thrice honored at the 2013 Weyrich Awards Dinner. Heritage Founder Ed Feulner (left) received the Enduring Impact
Award; DistinguishedFellowEmeritusEdMeese(center)acceptedtheConservativeHallofFameAwardandcongratulationsfromM.C.Cleta
Mitchell, and Heritage Action for America—represented by CEO Mike Needham—was named Outstanding New Organization of the Year.
ROB
CANNON
CASI
LONG
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
need to limit government, and demonize “the rich.” Most trou-
blingly, they tempt the masses with promises of security and
“fairness” while pressing for policies that would transform
them and all free citizens into docile subjects of the state.
Progressive rule ultimately leads to what Alexis de Tocqueville
called a “soft despotism” that reduces humanity to “nothing
more than a herd of timid and industrious animals of which the
government is the shepherd.” Such despotism might provide
cradle-to-grave security, but only at the cost of our freedom.
Heritage believes that leftists have their history backwards.
That free markets and free peoples—not government—are what
generate opportunity and uplift lives.
Our campaign to rally Americans to the conservative cause
took a major step forward in 2013, when Heritage launched the
American Perceptions Initiative (API). Through focus groups,
online forums, and detailed surveys of how Americans perceive
specific policy issues, Heritage is getting an exact snapshot of
the values, assumptions, and perceptions that shape the views
of Americans from far left to far right. In the process, we are
learning what it takes to move Americans of all stripes toward
supporting conservative policies.
There is more about these studies and how they informed
our work in 2013 later in this report. But just as important is
how we are building on those early, API-fueled successes with
an ongoing communications campaign—one crafted to unite
Americansbehindacommonsense,conservativepolicyagenda.
Other planned research and communications projects for
2014 include new investment in our Center for Data Analysis,
so we can remain the nation’s leader in economic analysis of
public policy proposals. We are also preparing to launch two
new indices to complement our globally acclaimed Index of
Economic Freedom. One will objectively measure our nation’s
military power; the other will measure our cultural health.
We will continue to challenge President Obama’s emphasis on
“correcting” income inequality, knowing that income inequal-
ity must exist if a society is to offer opportunity and economic
mobility—the real keys to the American Dream.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
(From left): Anthony J. Saliba, Chicago, Ill.; Meg Allen, Geneva,
Switzerland; Robert Pennington, Darien, Conn.; Brian Tracy, Solana
Beach, Calif.; Kay Coles James, Fairfax Station, Va.; Larry P. Arnn,
Hillsdale, Mich.; David R. Brown, Chairman Emeritus, Oklahoma City,
Okla.; Nersi Nazari, Atherton, Calif.; Douglas F. Allison, Bloomfield
Hills, Mich.; Edwin J. Feulner, Alexandria, Va.; Thomas A. Saunders III,
Chairman, New York, N.Y.; Jim DeMint, Greenville, S.C.; Jerry Hume,
San Francisco, Calif.; Phillip N. Truluck, Bethesda, Md.; J. Frederic
Rench, Secretary, Camden, S.C.; Barb Van Andel-Gaby, Duluth, Ga.;
Abby Moffat, Bethesda, Md.; J. William Middendorf II, Little Compton,
R.I.; Richard M. Scaife, Vice Chairman, Pittsburgh, Pa.;
Belden H. Bell, Marshall, Va.; Todd W. Herrick, Bay Harbor, Mich.;
Marion G. Wells, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; Steve Forbes, New York, N.Y.; Midge
Decter,NewYork,N.Y.(Notpictured:WilliamE.Simon,Jr.,LosAngeles,Calif.)
DAVID
HILLS
PHOTOGRAPHY/FRASIER
PHOTO
DR. KATHRYN DAVIS
Honorary Trustee
1907–2013
BARONESS MARGARET
THATCHER
Patron
1925–2013
ABITUS SED NON OBLITUS
In Memoriam
Defenders of Liberty and Faithful Friends
of The Heritage Foundation
CHAS
GEER
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
And, of course, we will promote our new book, “Falling in Love
with America Again,” which explains how our nation’s “little
platoons”—the families, churches, and voluntary associations
that stand between the individual and Big Government—are
the true wellsprings of America’s freedom and prosperity, and
why Washington needs to stand back and let states, localities,
and individuals make more of their own decisions.
While we ramp up our efforts to communicate directly with
the American people, our focus on educating Capitol Hill will
not waver. After all, ensuring that lawmakers act in accor-
dance with our nation’s founding principles is why we launched
Heritage Action for America in 2010. Its 501(c)(4) status gives
Heritage Action the freedom to advocate or oppose legislation
before Congress in ways that The Heritage Foundation cannot.
Heritage Action acts as a principled advocate for the American
people, and in 2013 it won notable victories. This report
describeshowthe“one-twopunch”ofsuperbHeritageresearch
and insistent Heritage Action advocacy prevented Congress
from passing gun-control legislation, a new Internet sales tax,
a badly flawed U.N. Disability Treaty, and an unfair and costly
amnesty for illegal immigrants.
…HONORSRECEIVED
Honors rained on Heritage leaders and scholars in 2013. The
deluge began at the Weyrich Awards Dinner in February. These
awards recognize “those who have made a major contribution
to advancing the cause of liberty through organizations and
media.” The Heritage juggernaut nabbed three prizes. Dr. Edwin
Feulner received the Enduring Impact Award; Feulner and long-
time Heritage colleague Edwin Meese III won the Conservative
Hall of Fame Award, and Heritage Action was named Outstanding
New Organization of the Year.
At the Conservative Political Action Conference in March, Meese
was honored anew, as Heritage’s Ronald Reagan Distinguished
Fellow Emeritus received the Defender of the Constitution Award.
In October, the Intercollegiate Studies Institute gave Dr. Lee
Edwards its highest honor, the Charles H. Hoeflich Lifetime
Achievement Award. Heritage’s Distinguished Fellow in
Conservative Thought, Edwards is a leading historian of American
conservatism and the author or editor of more than 20 books.
In November, the Young Conservatives Coalition named Ryan T.
Anderson a Buckley Award winner. The award recognizes indi-
viduals aged 21-40 for outstanding contributions to the conser-
vative movement in the last year. The 31-year-old Anderson is
Heritage’s William E. Simon Fellow in Religion and a Free Society.
At year’s end, Meese and Heritage Vice President Becky Norton
Dunlop were both honored with the Libertas Award, presented
by the Adriatic Institute for Public Policy. Based in Croatia, the
Institute is a think tank promoting economic freedom, democracy,
and the rule of law throughout the post-Communist countries
of Southeastern Europe. Its recognition of Dunlop and Meese
shows once again that Heritage is truly a global “force for good.”
HONORSGIVEN…
In April, Heritage awarded its 2013 Salvatori Prize for American
Citizenship to the Claremont Institute, a California-based nonprofit
dedicatedtorestoringtheprinciplesoftheAmericanfoundinginthe
life of the nation. Claremont President Brian T. Kennedy accepted
the award at Heritage’s 36th
annual Resource Bank—a gathering of
more than 500 movers and shakers in the conservative movement.
In addition to publishing the Claremont Review of Books, the
institute runs the Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence and the
Center for Local Government and sponsors fellowships for rising
young conservative leaders. The $25,000 prize, given in honor of
the late entrepreneur and philanthropist Henry Salvatori, recog-
nizes an individual or organization for outstanding work in advanc-
ing the principles and virtues of the nation’s Founders.
In October, Heritage presented its Defender of the Constitution
Award to Judge Diarmuid O’Scannlain. The distinguished jurist
has been a force in the conservative movement since 1960 when,
upon the founding of Young Americans for Freedom, he was elected
to the Board of Directors. In 1986, President Reagan nominated
O’Scannlain to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit.
One of the most famously liberal courts in the land, O’Scannlain has
distinguished himself by holding firm to the principles of freedom
and limited government articulated by the Founders.
In November, the Young Conservatives Coalition named Heritage
Fellow Ryan T. Anderson a Buckley Award winner.
YOUNG
CONSERVATIVES
COALITION
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
201
Legal
Memoranda
1,400
14.8 million
visitors to Heritage.org
1.1 million
Facebook “likes”
304
Issue Briefs
Special
Reports
2,700
radio
interviews
7.7 million
unique visitors to “The Foundry”
400,000
Twitter
followers
112
38
1,100
television
interviews
190,000
“Morning Bell”
e-newsletter subscribers
282 staff members
public lectures
and seminars
commentaries in
major print outlets
HERITAGE IN 2013...BY THE NUMBERS
Congressional
testimonies
and over a half-million members
who make all this possible
THANKYOU!
Backgrounders
17
34
In 2014, Heritage Action will continue to draw on Heritage
Foundation research to advance policies that keep America
free, prosperous, and strong. Our agenda includes proposals
to cut federal spending to no more than 18 percent of GDP,
replace Obamacare with a patient-centered health care system,
reduce government meddling in the marketplace, and protect
American sovereignty and national security. And, as always, we
will support policies that lift up the family, civil society, and tra-
ditional American values.
Of course, nothing Heritage has done or plans to do is more
important than our commitment to maintaining the highest
standardsofscholarlyresearch.Intellectualintegrityisthevery
essenceofour“brand,”andwewillneversacrificescholarlystan-
dardstotheneedsof“politicalcorrectness”orelectoralpolitics.
On the day after the disappointing 2012 elections, Dr. Edwin J.
Feulner, the long-serving President of Heritage, called a meet-
ing of the entire staff. “Many of you,” he told them, “may be
looking around in despair and asking—where is the cavalry that
can come galloping to the rescue?
“Well,” he continued, “I’ve got news: We are the cavalry. We
are the organization that carries on the Reagan Revolution and
stops the Obama Revolution in its tracks.”
Then, reflecting on the four decades since Heritage opened its
doors, Feulner said, “It seems to me that everything we have
builtup,slowlyandsometimespainfully,hasledustothisdefin-
ing moment—for the great battle in which we are engaged.”
Today, Heritage has new leadership, but the battle remains the
same, and our resolve to uphold the cause of freedom is as firm
as ever. Our first 40 years were indeed marked by greatness—
but with the continued support of you, our members, the best
is yet to come!
THOMAS A. SAUNDERS III
Chairman
JIM DEMINT
President
DAVID
HILLS
and over a half-million members
who make all this possible
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
Teaming up for Maximum Impact
Imagine a policy-driven “flying squad,” a small group of experts from various disciplines,
on call and able to strike fast—as a team—at crucial junctures of public debate. In 2013,
Heritage not only imagined having that capability, we built it—several times.
W
ecallthemImpactTeams.They’redesignedtogive
an extra push to high-priority policy proposals,
andweformonewheneverwespotanopportunity
to achieve an immediate policy victory.
An Impact Team combines the talents of one or two experts
from every department at Heritage—research, strategic com-
munications, external relations, and development—as well as
a representative from our political action affiliate, Heritage
Action for America. The team quickly crafts a plan of action,
then carries it out. Once the policy outcome is decided—win,
lose, or draw—the team disbands.
A major strategic innovation for Heritage, the Impact Team
approach allows us to marshal our experts’ time and talents in
concentrated doses for maximum effect. And in 2013, they had
tremendous impact indeed.
INTERNET SALES TAX
On May 6, the Senate approved overwhelmingly (69-27) the
Marketplace Fairness Act. The next day, Heritage stood up its
Internet Sales Tax Impact Team.
The Senate-passed measure would have required all online
retailers grossing more than $1 million to collect sales taxes for
jurisdictions in which they had customers. Consumers would
wind up paying an additional $23 billion in taxes, and small
online businesses would face an accounting and administra-
tive nightmare. (Nearly 10,000 state and local jurisdictions
levy sales taxes, with various rates, reporting requirements,
and deadlines.)
Onerous? Yes. But the bill was considered a shoo-in for passage
in the House. After all, it was backed by an army of lobbyists
representing cash-hungry states and big retailers—e.g., the
National Retail Federation, big-box stores and even e-com-
merce giant Amazon.com. Still, the Impact Team managed to
stop this juggernaut in its tracks.
Thanks to a Heritage YouTube video, Catesby Jones became the
face of small-business owners who would be hit hard by a proposed
requirement that they collect state and local sales taxes on all online
transactions.
CHANGING THE CULTURE
IN WASHINGTON
Heritage is dedicated to changing the culture in Washington.
When it comes to budgeting, for instance, we believe the ques-
tion should be “What can be cut?” not “How much more can we
spend, tax and borrow?” And we don’t believe the federal govern-
ment should automatically assume it must solve every problem in
America. Civil Society and Federalism can handle most of those
problems much better.
And Washington has taken notice. BusinessWeek’s Sept. 26 cover
story was titled “Jim DeMint, Congressional Republicans’ Shadow
Speaker.” The article highlights Heritage’s work to change the cul-
ture on Capitol Hill, as exemplified by its campaign to turn off the
funding spigot for Obamacare.
It’s a long, hard road to culture change. But when a major news
outlet like this considers Team Heritage’s effort to be cover-story
worthy, it indicates that we’re making significant progress.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Heritage hit hard at the bill’s fundamental policy problems. We
stressed two major points: It would skew the free market and
violate the principle of “no taxation without representation.”
Why, we asked, should online businesses be forced to serve
as unpaid tax collectors and accountants and remit money to
jurisdictions that provide them no services whatsoever?
Those arguments gave policymakers pause. So did our eco-
nomic analyses. These showed that the tax would harm a still
shaky economy, hitting small businesses the hardest.
The team didn’t just “talk numbers,” though. We also gave voice
to some of the e-entrepreneurs whose very livelihoods stood
at risk. Our video interview with Catesby Jones, proprietor of
Peace Frogs apparel, allowed him to tell his story to more than
60,000 viewers on YouTube.
Recognizing that lawmakers from states with no sales tax
would have little interest in forcing local business owners to
spend resources collecting taxes for others, we made sure our
research and personal stories made their way into every office
on Capitol Hill, regardless of party affiliation.
Within a month, the tide turned. On June 18, US News & World
Report reported that the “sales tax bill that sailed through the
Senate lookstobeflounderingintheHouseofRepresentatives.”
Days later, we received word from the Hill that the “unstoppa-
ble” bill was dead for the year. The Internet Sales Tax Impact
Team then disbanded.
FARM BILL
It’s a misnomer. By all rights, the Farm Bill should be called
the Food Stamp Bill. After all, 80 percent of its spending goes
toward the burgeoning Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program (SNAP). In 2013, more than 23 million households—
one of every five—were on food stamps.
For years, Heritage has urged Congress to split the bill in
two—thus breaking the unholy alliance between farm state
pork-barrelersandurbanwelfareenthusiasts.Werelawmakers
to consider agriculture and welfare policy separately, we rea-
soned,therewouldbegreateropportunitytopursueintelligent
reforms in both areas.
Multinational corporations and millionaire “gentleman farmers”
collect the vast majority of farm subsidies. Heritage drove that
point home in this entertaining graphic which appeared in our May
30 “Morning Bell” and garnered 9,000 shares on Facebook—a new
record for long infographics.
KELSEY
HARRIS
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
In 2013, the Farm Bill Impact Team got us partway there.
OnJune19,theimpossiblehappened.TheHouseofRepresentatives
rejected the Senate-passed, $940 billion farm bill on a 195-234
vote. And the coordinated efforts of the Farm Bill Impact Team
were a big reason why.
Heritage regulatory expert Diane Katz and agriculture policy
analyst Daren Bakst produced revelatory research and briefing
materials for the Hill. They also took their case to the people,
penning numerous commentaries for newspapers and online
outlets. In essays such as “20 Completely Unjustified Programs
in the House Farm Bill,” the duo explained how the bill contin-
uedtobankrollbloatedprogramsthatill-servedtheirsupposed
beneficiaries, while needlessly emptying taxpayers’ wallets.
Thepubliceducationcampaignprovokedoutrageinmanyquar-
ters, and helped change minds on Capitol Hill. Even though
House leadership backed the measure, conservative members
refused to go along. With the federal debt at $17 trillion and ris-
ing, they simply could not justify spending so much money so
unwisely. Their opposition, combined with that from liberals
upsetbyamodestcutinfoodstamps,wasenoughtosinkthebill.
Within a week, House Leadership announced it would split the
farm bill into two parts, so that the food stamps funding could
be considered separately. It was welcome news for reformers.
And a huge victory for the Impact Team.
Unfortunately, it was short-lived. In the new year, Congress
returned to its old tricks. The House-Senate conference com-
mittee folded food stamps back into the farm bill. In conse-
quence, the final bill trimmed only $16.5 billion over 10 years.
Better than nothing, but still a reminder that there is no such
thing as a permanent victory—or defeat—on Capitol Hill.
IMMIGRATION IMPACT TEAM
The Gang of Eight’s “comprehensive” immigration reform bill
was another supposedly unstoppable proposal that found itself
going absolutely nowhere once a Heritage Impact Team swung
into action.
The 844-page bill—hammered out behind closed doors by eight
Senators—was unveiled on April 14. Given its bipartisan spon-
sorship and the eagerness of a liberal press corps to promote
any measure offering illegal immigrants a “pathway to citizen-
ship,” passage seemed to be a foregone conclusion.
But our Immigration Impact Team had other ideas. For start-
ers, we thought politicians should know how much the amnesty
provisions would wind up costing the federal purse. And
so, on May 6, Heritage released “The Fiscal Cost of Unlawful
Immigrants and Amnesty to the U.S. Taxpayer,” by Senior
Research Fellow Robert Rector.
The paper examined four types of benefits and services the bill
would have made available to those on the “pathway.” Rector
calculated that providing direct benefits, means-tested wel-
fare benefits, public education, and population-based services
to approximately 11.5 million illegal immigrants would cost
American taxpayers $6.3 trillion.
The Impact Team made sure the paper got the attention it
deserved, in the media as well as on Capitol Hill. The day before
the study came out, Heritage President Jim DeMint previewed
thefindingsonABC’s“ThisWeekwithGeorgeStephanopoulos.”
This generated tremendous “buzz” that we amplified the next
day with a full-blown press conference, a Washington Post col-
umn by DeMint and Rector and an extensive interview with
DeMint on Fox News’ “America’s Newsroom.” Fox News also
taped a special report with Rector. On each occasion, Heritage
drove home the message that “amnesty and the welfare state
don’t mix.”
Our education efforts on Capitol Hill were even more intense.
Indeed, the National Journal characterized Rector’s presence
there as “ubiquitous.”
Senior Research Fellow Robert Rector’s meticulous analysis of
the fiscal costs of granting amnesty to illegal immigrants proved a
game-changer in the public debate and made him, in the words of the
National Journal, “the most influential outside player on what is per-
haps the defining issue of the 113th Congress.”
MICHAEL
SANDOVAL
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
In a profile entitled “Who Is Robert Rector, Conservative
Immigration Whisperer?” the magazine observed:
In the seven weeks since Rector released his
Heritage study, he has spent hundreds of hours
roaming the corridors of the Capitol. He has
met with dozens of senators and scores of
House members—the views of whom span the
ideologicaldivide—todiscussthefindingsofhis
report….Andintheprocess,Rectorhasbecome
the most influential outside player on what is
perhapsthedefiningissueofthe113thCongress.
Armed with Heritage’s impeccable research, opponents of
amnesty fought the immigration bill to a standstill in the
House. Amnesty advocates planned to use the August congres-
sional recess to build momentum for a renewed push in the fall.
But that never happened.
Why? Because Heritage’s Obamacare Impact Team completely
changed the topic of recess discussions.
STOP OBAMACARE IMPACT TEAM
In the battle over government-run health care, Oct. 1, 2013, was
D-Day. The start of the new fiscal year, it was also the date when
the Obamacare health exchanges would open for business.
Heritage saw this as an opportunity to focus attention on all the
problems with Obamacare—from the patently false promises
made to “sell” the program, to the extraordinary expense, to
the unworkable policies at its core.
The campaign began with the “Defund Obamacare Tour,” a
series of town hall meetings organized by Heritage Action and
featuring Jim DeMint. The tour coincided with the congres-
sional recess, when lawmakers were back in their districts and
more accessible to constituents.
And following the town halls, those lawmakers got an earful.
Each event drew hundreds of people and scads of media cover-
age,deliveringthemessagethatCongressshouldspendnotone
penny more on implementing the program in 2014.
Heritage took its “Stop Obamacare” public information campaign to the streets, with this six-story-tall billboard just off New York’s Times
Square. The billboard garnered national media attention, as well as the eyes of millions of passersby.
NICK
MONTALVO
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
The tour became a national phenomenon—the subject of
water cooler conversations in newsrooms across the country.
Immigrationreformdisappearedfromthefrontpages,replaced
by stories about the grassroots revolt against Obamacare.
When Congress returned to work, Heritage used a variety of
tactics to keep the drumbeat going. For example, we took out
a six-story-tall billboard just off Times Square. Echoing the old
Surgeon General’s cigarette advisory, it said simply and starkly,
“Warning: Obamacare may be hazardous to your health.”
The billboard—a first for Heritage—received an estimated
1.5 million local impressions daily for 13 weeks. It sparked
national media attention as well, including coverage from The
Wall Street Journal, MSNBC, CNBC, and FOX News, as well as a
two-night Lou Dobbs interview with DeMint. New media com-
munications—text messaging, “tweeting,” and Facebook posts—
extended the billboard’s reach even further. It also earned us
our first-ever “Tweetie.” Twitter honored us with that award in
the category: “Best Use of Rich Media in a Promoted Tweet.”
The disastrous roll-out of HealthCare.gov provided our Impact
Team with even more fuel for the anti-Obamacare fire. Within
days we produced “More Than a Glitch,” a parody ad for
Obamacare. “The Heritage Foundation puts a comedic spin on
all the glitches, endless wait times, and premium rate increases
that are now associated with Obamacare,” reported The Blaze,
which hailed the video as “hilarious yet scathing.”
While the Impact Team continued to press its case that
Obamacare was irredeemably “unworkable, unaffordable and
unfair,”italsopromotedHeritage’svisionofaconsumer-driven
alternative to government-run health care.
This second phase of the campaign began in earnest with the
Oct. 15 publication of “After Repeal of Obamacare: Moving
to Patient-Centered, Market-Based Health Care.” The paper
articulated a set of principles to guide policymakers as they
ponder how to get America’s health care system back on track.
As the year drew to a close, public support for Obamacare
and its architects had cratered. And Congress was turning to
Heritage for advice on how to dig out of the hole.
Heritage’s public information and education programs employ all
formsofcommunication,includingsocialmedia, formaximumimpact.
Here,HeritageDigitalMediaAssociateAliciaCohnacceptsTwitter’s
highest honor for Best Use of Rich Media in a Promoted Tweet.”
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) addresses a packed hall in Dallas—just
one of the stops on the “Defund Obamacare Tour” organized by
Heritage Action for America. The Dallas event alone drew more
than 1,000 people.
PATRICK
FRANK
TWITTER
DC
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Crafting and Delivering
the Conservative Message
In 2013, Heritage launched the American Perceptions Initiative. Its goal: to expand and
energize the Conservative Movement and lead it to public policy success—through more
effective communications.
T
his project hinges—as do all Heritage initiatives—on
rigorous research. Our market research team works
with outside experts to determine exactly what
Americans think about big-picture issues—such as
the proper role of government in their lives—as well as current
legislative issues such as immigration reform, Obamacare, and
the federal debt.
We’ve learned that the majority of the American people share
conservative values and actually embrace conservative
policy proposals—when properly presented. That’s an
important caveat, because many people who share our views
can be put off by the label “conservative” or when we use
terms or arguments that simply don’t resonate with them.
The American Perceptions Initiative works to identify the
arguments, language, tone, and media best calculated to rally
a “critical mass” of Americans in support of Heritage policy
recommendations.
Earlyreturnssuggestthisdisciplined,research-basedapproach
works well. For example, multiple rounds of market research
indicated that unhappiness with Obamacare proceeded from
concerns that the scheme was “unworkable, unaffordable, and
unfair.” Sound familiar? It should.
Sharing our research findings with lawmakers and activists
across the Conservative Movement, we urged them to join us
in using that phrase when speaking or writing about the failed
health program. It became a catch-phrase of Obamacare oppo-
sition. A year-end survey of 1,099 registered voters found fully
two-thirds remembered hearing that Obamacare was “unwork-
able, unaffordable, and unfair.” More importantly, most shared
that view. A CNN poll found opposition to the President’s sig-
nature legislation had risen to a record 62 percent.
In addition to helping us develop more effective messages,
American Perceptions research helped us identify more effec-
tive messengers. For example, it revealed that, when people
seek a straight answer about the legitimacy of government-run
health care, the person they most want to hear from is their
own doctor. Acting on that insight, Heritage created a graphic
featuring noted neurosurgeon Dr. Ben Carson and his assess-
ment of Obamacare:
We keep delaying things. Why not just delay
the whole bill permanently and come up with a
solution that really is affordable and that really
will take care of everybody?
This simple image became a Facebook sensation. “Liked” and
passed along from friend to friend, it was seen by some 3.5 mil-
lion people within a matter of days.
Similarly, our research on the Internet Sales Tax found that
people were far more interested in learning how the levy would
Heritage President Jim DeMint (left) seeks clarification of some
market research findings at a September staff briefing by Heart
+ Mind Strategies on Americans’ perceptions of Obamacare.
Also pondering the implications of the research: Vice President
of Communications Mike Gonzalez (center) and Executive Vice
President Phil Truluck (right).
PATRICK
FRANK
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
affect small-business owners than in hearing philosophical
arguments about tax equity and the locus of business opera-
tion. (Go figure!) So Heritage went to Gloucester, Va., and inter-
viewed Catesby Jones, the owner of an online clothing shop.
His calm, heartfelt explanation of how this tax would crush his
plans to expand his business and create jobs became one of our
most widely viewed videos on YouTube. It also helped sway
fence-sitters in Congress to back away from the tax.
Our market research team plans to make an even bigger differ-
ence in 2014. They are building the Heritage Insights Panel, a
poolof5,000Americanswillingtoparticipateinquick-response
online surveys. The Panel comprises three distinct audiences:
conservative activists, Congressional staff, and members of the
“moveable middle” (i.e., Americans who do not self-identify as
conservatives, but who are open to our solutions).
Success hinges on persuading more and more people in all
three categories to get behind our policy recommendations.
Throughout 2014, we’ll learn more about—and from—these
Americans, as we search for the best messages, messengers, and
media to advance our policy recommendations.
STRAIGHT TALK: TAKING OUR IDEAS DIRECTLY TO THE PEOPLE
Other think tanks have long envied Heritage’s ability to get its findings
and views out to the American people via “earned” media. Our com-
munications team is second to none in booking print and broadcast
interviews and placing commentaries in the nation’s editorial pages.
But Heritage now has an even bigger competitive advantage in its
use of digital media. Our social media accounts, combined with our
online “properties” (Heritage.org and The Foundry), allow us to con-
nect—instantly—with vast numbers of people. The ability to bypass
the traditional news media and provide supporters with timely, per-
suasive information is a huge asset.
Those assets increased significantly in 2013. The list of online sub-
scribers to The Morning Bell, a daily dose of penetrating conservative
commentary and news, grew to nearly 200,000. Our Twitter followers
numbered 400,000. Our Facebook “fans” doubled in number, giving us
nearly twice the Facebook fan base of The Washington Post.
Those numbers matter, because most successful news websites rely
on social media like Facebook and Twitter to attract readers. And
Heritage has every intention of turning The Foundry into a robust
news property that will rival the leading online outlets of the Left.
Already, The Foundry receives half of its visitors from Facebook
alone, and we will continue to grow that fan base. Social media
applications are key to promoting the increasing number of videos
and graphics produced by Heritage.
For example, our YouTube parody of an actual commercial promot-
ing Obamacare became Heritage’s most-watched video ever—
more than 500,000 views—after we distributed the link through
Facebook and Twitter.
Similarly, our virtual poster of Dr. Ben Carson’s call for a permanent
moratorium on Obamacare profited greatly from social media pro-
motion. It became the first Heritage graphic to be seen by more than
3.5 million people. Several other graphics released in 2013 received
more than a million views, thanks to social media.
To put that in context, consider this: Heritage online graphics now
consistently generate at least three times more engagement than
those produced by any other public policy organization. And digital
media engagement, persuasion, and activation will help us win the
policy battles of the future.
KELSEY
HARRIS
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Heritage's Centers of Excellence:
Where Research Reigns Supreme
While Impact Teams now temporarily “surge” research and marketing assets when the
opportunity for an immediate policy victory presents itself, Heritage remains a “full-
service” think tank. Day in and day out, our researchers engage on all issue areas. It’s why
policymakers know that, whatever the topic, they can turn to us for rigorous analysis and
creative policy solutions grounded in conservative principles.
T
he bulk of Heritage research proceeds from a dozen
distinct centers and institutes. In 2013, each of these
research “hives” celebrated some major milestones
and scored impressive policy victories of their own.
THE KATHRYN AND SHELBY CULLOM
DAVIS INSTITUTE FOR
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
ItwasthelargestgiftinHeritage’s40-yearhistory.OnSept.6,the
family of the late Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis announced
a $26 million donation to endow the work of the Davis Institute
for International Studies. The institute oversees all Heritage
research on foreign policy and national security issues.
The gift memorializes Shelby Cullom Davis and Dr. Kathryn
Davis, both staunch supporters of Heritage for decades. In 1991,
the couple received the very first Clare Boothe Luce Award,
Heritage’s highest honor, in recognition of their enormous
achievements in promoting the Conservative Movement.
“This magnificent gift assures that the Davis Institute can fur-
ther Shelby and Kathryn’s legacy of advancing conservative
principles through scholarship and action,” noted Heritage
President Jim DeMint.
In a move that would have delighted the Davises, the insti-
tute stepped up its strategic outreach to foreign governments
that have been largely ignored by the Obama Administration.
Through a series of public events and roundtables with
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
At Heritage’s all-staff meeting in
September, Board Member Abby
Moffat announces an amazing
gift from the family of Kathryn and
Shelby Davis: a $26 million endow-
ment of our Davis Institute for
International Studies. Looking on
are Heritage Founder and Trustee
Ed Feulner and Diana Davis
Spencer, Kathryn and Shelby’s
daughter and the President of the
Diana Davis Spencer Foundation.
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
embassy staff, Davis scholars encouraged the efforts of former
Soviet states trying to resist Russian domination. The initiative
included nations from the Balkans, Baltics, and Asia, as well as
those with interests in the Arctic.
Under the leadership of Dr. James Jay Carafano, Vice President
for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies, Davis experts fought
against additional debilitating reductions in the Pentagon bud-
get. Ill-considered cuts have already undermined near-term
military readiness and hobbled the military’s ability to defend
against long-term strategic threats.
And to help assure that taxpayers get true value for their
homeland-security dollars, Davis researchers produced The
Second Quadrennial Homeland Security Review. The analysis
noted that 10-year-old Department of Homeland Security has
become an “all hazards” bureaucracy, dealing with natural
disasters and technological accidents as well as terror threats.
The report called for a rigorous prioritization of missions and
recommended that top priority be given to modernizing the
severely deteriorated Coast Guard fleet.
“Today, America is less united, and less prepared to meet the
[nationalsecurity]challengesofthefuture,thanatanyotherpoint
since the end of the Cold War.” So concluded Heritage Visiting
Fellow Jim Talent and American Enterprise Institute Visiting
FellowJonKylinAStrongandFocusedNationalSecurityStrategy.
The Special Report was a manifesto of sorts for the “Project
for the Common Defense,” an initiative jointly sponsored by
the Davis Institute and the American Enterprise Institute.
Dedicated to promoting a 21st century agenda of peace through
strength, the project sustains an informal network of seasoned
policymakers and defense experts.
DOUGLAS AND SARAH ALLISON
CENTER FOR FOREIGN AND
NATIONAL SECURITY POLICY
Led by Dr. Steven Bucci, a former Army Special Forces officer
and top Pentagon official, Allison Center staff made preserving
a strong national defense their top priority for 2013. A strong
military keeps our nation safe and free. Yet too often, politi-
cians treat the defense budget as a cookie jar to be raided for
petdomesticprojects.Ratherthanspend“whateverittakes”on
specialinterestsandsendthePentagonwhatever’sleft,Heritage
advocatesneeds-baseddefensebudgetingsufficienttoovercome
the threats facing us now and in the foreseeable future.
Three consecutive years of dwindling investment has “hol-
lowed out” the U.S. military. Allison Center researchers pre-
pared a strength and forces handbook to help Capitol Hill staff
understand the parameters of current and future threats, the
force and material needed to defeat them, and the resources
needed to build and maintain an effective defense.
When Congress turned to the 2014 National Defense
Authorization Act (NDAA), legislation that sets defense fund-
ing levels and the policies under which those funds will be dis-
bursed, Heritage Action staff made sure the Allison handbook
Former U.S. Representative Allen West keynotes our Sept. 10 semi-
nar on “Benghazi—Another Tragic 9/11 Anniversary” in Lehrman
Auditorium. The following panel discussion explored how far diplo-
matic security and intelligence sharing had improved since the fatal
2012 attack on our diplomatic compound.
TOP DAVIS CENTER RESEARCH PAPERS:
A Strong and Focused National Security Strategy
Jim Talent and The Honorable Jon Kyl
60 Terrorist Plots Since 9/11: Continued Lessons in Domestic
Counterterrorism
Jessica Zuckerman, Steven P. Bucci, Ph.D., and James Jay Carafano, Ph.D.
Beyond the Plateau in U.S. – India Relations
Sunjoy Joshi, C. Raja Mohan, Vikram Sood, Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan,
Ph.D., James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., Walter Lohman, Lisa Curtis, and Derek
Scissors, Ph.D.
Sexual Assault in the Military: Understanding the Problem and
How to Fix It
Charles Stimson
Rebound: Getting America Back to Great
Kim R. Holmes, Ph.D.
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
got into lawmakers’ hands. Several Members of Congress com-
plimented the Heritage team on the usefulness of the report,
and Rep. Michelle Bachman (R-Minn.) singled out the cyber
security section for special praise.
House Members drafted 12 amendments reflecting recom-
mendations in the handbook, and all 12 amendments passed.
Ultimately, all 12—including a directive to establish a missile
defense site on the East Coast—gained Senate approval as well.
Allison analysts also carried the day at the State Department,
whichfinallydesignatedBokoHaramasaterroristorganization.
AnIslamistmilitantgrouptryingtoimposeIslamiclawonnorth-
ernNigeria,BokoHaramhasbeenblamedforthousandsofdeaths.
Heritage had pressed for this official designation since 2009.
Now, it is illegal to provide material support to the group, and
U.S. regulatory agencies can block business and financial trans-
actions with these terrorists. It’s some long overdue progress
in The Long War and will also help strengthen our relationship
with Nigeria, a strategic partner of the United States.
Unfortunately, the Administration did not heed our advice on
how to handle the chaotic situation in Syria. Rather than rally
our allies in coordinated support of non-Islamist factions
opposing Assad’s regime, the President’s “lead from behind”
approach wound up bolstering Islamist extremist groups
within Syria, exacerbating tensions between rival opposition
groups and weakening the insurgency. When an embold-
ened Assad resorted to chemical warfare, Mr. Obama then
announced he would use military force—acting unilaterally if
necessary.
Heritage analysts strongly advised against unilateral military
intervention in Syria. It is never wise, they noted, to exercise
military power divorced from strategic interests and a long-
range strategy. That argument carried the day in Congress,
whichrefusedtoendorsethePresident’scallformilitaryaction.
AtaMarch19eventcommemoratingthe30thanniversaryofRonald
Reagan’s ground-breaking “Star Wars” speech, Sen. Kelly Ayotte
(R-N.H.) discusses the principles underlying the Strategic Defense
Initiative. Other presenters included Heritage Distinguished
Fellow Kim Holmes (center) and former SDI Director Henry
Cooper (right).
A dozen of the nation’s top national security experts and a dozen leading journalists gather in Colorado Springs for Heritage’s annual work-
shop on defense. Co-sponsored by El Pomar Foundation, the annual day-and-a-half long seminar for journalists facilitates well-informed
press coverage and commentary on issues vital to national security.
TOP ALLISON CENTER RESEARCH PAPERS:
Advancing the Immigration Nation: Heritage’s Positive Path to
Immigration and Border Security Reform
The Heritage Foundation Immigration and Border Security Reform Task Force
A Congressional Guide: Seven Steps to U.S. Security, Prosperity,
and Freedom in Cyberspace
Steven P. Bucci, Ph.D., Paul Rosenzweig, and David Inserra
Congress Should Pave the Way for a U.S.-Africa Free Trade
Agreement
Brett D. Schaefer, Anthony B. Kim, and Charlotte Florance
Top 10 To-do List for the National Defense Authorization Act
Michaela Dodge
Plotting a more Confident Course: Rethinking Oversight of the
Electric Sector and Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity
Steven P. Bucci, Ph.D., and Anyd Bochman
JAMIE
MCINTYRE
BENJAMIN
MYERS
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
MARGARET THATCHER CENTER
FOR FREEDOM
Under the direction of Dr. Nile Gardiner, the Thatcher Center
for Freedom led the charge against several international trea-
ties that threatened to undermine American sovereignty. Dr.
Theodore Bromund sounded the alarm over the “magical think-
ing” behind the UN Arms Trade Treaty (ATT). The feel-good
pactissupposedtoregulatethebehaviorofnationssothatweap-
ons don’t fall into the hands of terrorists or dictators. But, as
Bromund pointed out, a treaty does not constitute a meaningful
enforcementmechanism.Moreover,theATTtreatsdemocracies
anddictatorshipsthesame—therebyaffirmingtherightoftyran-
nies to import guns with which to oppress their people.
Bromund’s lucid critiques of the treaty, issued throughout
the drafting process, led House and Senate offices to seek his
advice in preparing a concurrent resolution opposing the pact.
Introduced in March, the resolution quickly attracted 122
co-sponsors in the House and 28 in the Senate. In October,
the Senate decisively rejected the treaty when fully half of the
upper chamber signed onto a bipartisan letter formally pledg-
ing to oppose ratification. At year’s end, the National Defense
Authorization Act (NDAA) included a Heritage-inspired
amendment that bans funding for the ATT.
Steven Groves, Thatcher’s Bernard and Barbara Lomas Senior
Research Fellow, led a coalition of NGOs opposing another UN
pact—theConventionontheRightsofPersonswithDisabilities.
Woefully nebulous, the treaty refuses even to define “disabil-
ity.” Rather, it asserts the term is “an evolving concept.” (In
other words: “Ratify the treaty; we’ll tell you what it means
later.”) Moreover, while supporters insist the pact would pro-
tect the rights of disabled Americans overseas, it contains no
mechanism to make good on that promise.
Ultimately, Groves’ intellectual and pragmatic case against rat-
ification carried the day. On Dec. 20, Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.),
ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
announced his firm opposition to the treaty—effectively sink-
ing its chances for 2014, and possibly for many years to come.
Margaret Thatcher Fellow Luke Coffey had a productive year as
well. He briefed scores of Hill staffers on the risks attendant to a
wholesale closure of U.S. military bases in Europe. His analysis
helpedturnthetideagainstaproposedamendmenttotheNDAA
that would have withdrawn all U.S. troops from the continent,
severely restricting America’s ability to project power globally.
Brett D. Schaefer, our Jay Kingham Senior Research Fellow
in International Regulatory Affairs, continued to be a most
effective watchdog, closely monitoring and exposing a variety
of shenanigans at the United Nations. Armed with Schaefer’s
research on UN waste and malfeasance, the U.S. delegation
pressured the General Assembly into adopting a 2014-2015
budget that is actually smaller than that of the previous bien-
nium. The UN also implemented a pay freeze and, for the first
time in its history, cut the size of its staff—both key Heritage
recommendations.
SchaeferwasalsoinstrumentalinworkingwithCongresstoblock
Administration efforts to change U.S. law that bars funding UN
organizations that grant full membership to the Palestinians.
Dr. Nile Gardiner, Director of Heritage’s Margaret Thatcher Center
for Freedom, discusses the Iron Lady’s legacy at a Sept. 24 book event
in Lehrman Auditorium. Robin Harris, author of “Not for Turning:
The Life of Margaret Thatcher” keynoted the event.
TOP THATCHER CENTER RESEARCH PAPERS:
The United States Should Recognize British Sovereignty Over the
Falkland Islands
Luke Coffey, Theodore Bromund, Ph.D., and Nile Gardiner, Ph.D.
EU Defense Integration: Undermining NATO, Transatlantic
Relations, and Europe’s Security
Luke Coffey
The U.S. Cannot Fix the UN Arms Trade Treaty
Theodore Bromund, Ph.D.
Ratifying the Disabilities Convention Will Not Help Americans
with Disabilities at Home or Abroad
Steven Groves
U.S. Must Enforce Peacekeeping Cap to Lower America’s UN
Assessment
Brett D. Schaefer
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
ASIAN STUDIES CENTER
Heritage’s oldest research center, the Asian Studies Center
(ASC), celebrated its 30th anniversary by engaging in the kind
of substantive public diplomacy too seldom supplied by the
Administration, for all its talk of “pivoting” to Asia.
ASC scholars travelled to Australia to hold the first Quad-
Plus Dialogue on Asian regional security issues. The meeting,
co-hostedbyprominentthinktanksfromAustralia,India,Japan,
andthePhilippines,focusedonthecommonsecuritychallenges
in the Pacific. Earlier, Heritage had co-hosted a conference on
issues facing the U.S.-Korea Alliance. More than 300 academics
and Korean officials attended those discussions in Seoul.
In January, North Korea announced that its new leadership
would continue to develop its nuclear and long-range missile
programs in preparation for an “upcoming, all-out action”
against the U.S. Less than three weeks later, Pyongyang con-
ducted its third nuclear test. Heritage immediately arranged a
teleconference for reporters trying to make sense of the action.
By day’s end, Korea expert Bruce Klingner had briefed 59 jour-
nalists—including reporters from The Wall Street Journal,
Newsweek, Agence France Presse and the Yomiuri Shimbun.
TheCenter’sinfluencewasfeltonCapitolHillaswell.TheNorth
Korea Nonproliferation and Accountability Act of 2013 included
languagethatcapturedmanyofKlingner’spolicyrecommendations
fordealingwiththerogueregime.Additionally,amulti-yeareffort
by the Center finally came to fruition when Congress approved
funding for the realignment of U.S. forces in Japan. Heritage was
the only think tank advocating for the construction necessary to
fulfill critical U.S. security objectives in the Asia-Pacific.
Thunderous applause greets Chinese human rights crusader Chen Guangcheng (in glasses) on his Jan. 30 visit to Heritage. Chen’s dramatic
escape from house arrest in Beijing made international headlines in 2012.
TOP ASIAN CENTER RESEARCH PAPERS:
China Global Investment Tracker
Multiple authors
A New View of Asia: 24 Charts that Show What’s at Stake for
America
Walter Lohman, John Fleming, and Olivia Enos
Time to Get North Korean Sanctions Right
Bruce Klingner
F-16C/D Fills Taiwan’s Fighter Need
Dean Cheng
Beyond the Plateau in U.S. - India Relations
Sunjoy Joshi, C. Raja Mohan, Vikram Sood, Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan,
James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., Walter Lohman, Lisa Curtis, and
Derek Scissors, Ph.D.
BENJAMIN
MYERS
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE
AND ECONOMICS (CITE)
“The global advance toward economic freedom has ground to
a halt.” That was the dispiriting finding of the “2013 Index of
Economic Freedom,” published jointly by Heritage and The
Wall Street Journal. The news for the U.S. was even gloomier:
economic freedom had declined for the sixth straight year,
placing us in the second-tier classification of “mostly free”
economies. The continuing deterioration in the ratings—fueled
largely by increasing regulatory intervention, excessive taxa-
tion, and even more excessive government spending—left “The
Land of the Free” on the verge of falling from the ranks of the
world’s 10 freest economies.
The good news was that people here and abroad paid attention.
Easily Heritage’s most widely read piece of research, the Index
garnered more than 5.3 million page views online. More than a
dozen publishers asked permission to reprint Index chapters,
charts, and tables for college textbooks and other curriculum
resources.
Under the direction of Ambassador Terry Miller, Heritage’s
Mark A. Kolokotrones Fellow in Economic Freedom, CITE also
published its annual Special Report on trade freedom, Congress
Should Get Smart and Cut Tariffs to Boost Trade Freedom.
It is important research, not just for its valuable policy rec-
ommendations, but because the U.S. Millennium Challenge
Corporation uses the findings to help determine which nations
are the best candidates for aid compacts.
CITE teamed with the Thatcher Center to inject greater eco-
nomic freedom in the “special relationship” between the U.S.
and the United Kingdom. Bryan Riley, CITE’s Jay Van Andel
Senior Policy Analyst in Trade Policy, and Thatcher’s Ted
Bromund met with high government officials in London to lay
the groundwork for a future U.S.-UK Free Trade Agreement. It
hasbeentwogenerationssinceBritainnegotiatedatradeagree-
ment on its own. But in 2017, UK voters are expected to vote to
discontinue membership in the European Union. Were that to
happen, it would open the door to inking a bilateral trade pact
that would advance economic freedom in both countries.
Heritage Founder Ed Feulner reveals key findings of the “2013 Index of Economic Freedom” at a Jan. 10 press conference in Hong Kong. An
internationally acclaimed resource for economists as well as policymakers, the 2013 Index received more than 5.3 million page views online.
TOP CITE RESEARCH PAPERS:
2013 Index of Economic Freedom
Multiple authors
2013 Global Agenda for Economic Freedom
The Heritage Foundation Economic Freedom Task Force
How Economic Freedom Promotes Better Health Care, Education
and Environmental Quality
James M. Roberts and Ryan Olson
Congress Should Get Smart and Cut Tariffs to Boost Trade Freedom
Bryan Riley and Ambassador Terry Miller
Promoting Economic Freedom: Key to Realizing the World Bank’s
Mission
Ambassador Terry Miller and Anthony Kim
LAI
WING
CHEONG
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
CENTER FOR POLICY INNOVATION
While the Left bemoaned income inequality and wanted to
discuss how best to redistribute wealth, Heritage’s Center for
Policy Innovation (CPI), led by Dr. Stuart Butler, focused its
research program on ways to expand opportunity and eco-
nomic mobility for all Americans.
Butler’s Can the American Dream Be Saved? appeared in
National Affairs and immediately reframed the terms of
debate. This was followed by a paper suggesting innovative
ways to boost savings in poor communities—an essential step
for amassing the capital needed to rise to the next rung of the
economic ladder. One of Butler’s intriguing ideas—allowing
financial institutions to offer raffle tickets as an inducement
to savings—was subsequently incorporated in the bipartisan
American Savings Promotion Act.
At the request of Congressional Budget Office Director Doug
Elmendorf, Butler and Will Skillman Fellow in Education
Policy Lindsey Burke briefed agency officials on their paper
“Accreditation: Removing the Barrier to Higher Education
Reform.” Elmendorf was so impressed with their outside-the-
box recommendations, he had all of the agency’s remote offices
teleconference into the discussion.
Lawmakers were impressed by their higher education work,
too. Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) asked Butler and Burke to work
with his staff on reform legislation and included Heritage ideas
on accreditation reform in his Higher Education Reform and
Opportunity Act.
Dr.RobertE.MoffitproducedtwolandmarkpapersforCPI.His
blueprint for replacing Obamacare with a market-based alter-
nativeappearedintheprestigiousJournalofLaw,Medicineand
Ethics. So much for the Left’s claim that conservatives have no
positive solutions for the nation’s health policy ills!
A second major think-piece from Moffit addressed the disturb-
ing trend of transferring governance authority from elected
officials to unelected bureaucrats. His provocative discussion
paper —“How to Roll Back the Administrative State”—outlined
what Congress must do to regain control of federal rule-mak-
ing. CPI followed up with a lively colloquium on the topic,
co-hosted by our Simon Center for Principles and Politics.
Sen. Mike Lee, R–Utah, outlines “What Conservatives Are For” in an April 22 address in Allison Auditorium. One of those things conserva-
tives seek is collegiate accreditation reform, and in addressing that topic, Lee’s Higher Education Reform and Opportunity Act incorporates
several innovative ideas from Heritage.
TOP CPI RESEARCH PAPERS:
Boosting Economic Mobility Through Prize-Linked Savings
Stuart Butler, Ph.D., David John, and Sean Rust
Rebuilding Social Capital Through Community Institutions
Mary Clare Reim
A Guide to Understanding International Comparisons of
Economic Mobility
Donald Schneider
How to Think About Long-Term Care
Robert Moffit, Ph.D.
Why Congress Needs a New Budget Process
Patrick Knudsen
JOHN
HARRINGTON
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
B. KENNETH SIMON CENTER FOR
PRINCIPLES AND POLITICS
Heritage’s Simon Center for Principles and Politics got a new
Director in 2013. Formerly the Associate Director, David
Azerrad moved up when long-time Director Matthew Spalding
moved across the street and into a new position as Associate
Vice President and Dean of Educational Programs for Hillsdale
College. Spalding retained ties with the Simon Center, how-
ever, in the capacity of Henry Salvatori Visiting Fellow.
Azerrad conducted a year-long series of public lectures to push
back against the Left’s misguided focus on income inequal-
ity and to denounce corporate cronyism and the entitlement
mentality. He argued instead for the good old American Dream,
anchored in economic freedom and a culture that celebrates
hard work. Azerrad carried his message from Harvard to the
University of Kansas, as well as to gatherings of business lead-
ers, civic leaders, and political activists.
Azerrad had more than ideas to offer. He had a plan. “America’s
OpportunityforAll,”publishedbyHeritageinJanuary,mapped
outapracticalapproachforgettingfederalspendingundercon-
trol, balancing the budget, shrinking the debt, and limiting the
size of government. By removing those barriers, policymakers
could free the American genius for creating jobs, opportunity,
and wealth. In effect, “America’s Opportunity” set forth a con-
servative agenda for the new Congress.
The Center’s education programs enjoyed a banner year. The
Congressional Fellows Program—a seven-month course on
the Principles of the Founders open to junior staff members
on Capitol Hill—boasted a graduating class of nearly 80. That
shattered the previous class record of 58. The Madison Fellows
Program for senior Hill staff also attracted a large number of
enthusiastic participants, many of them on the fast track to
leadership positions in the policy world.
David Azerrad, Director of our Simon Center for Principles and Politics, continues the discussion following his presentation of the Vickers
Memorial Lecture, Oct. 17 at the University of Kansas School of Business. Azerrad spoke on “The Contested American Dream: Reflections on
Opportunity, Prosperity, and Income Inequality.”
TOP SIMON CENTER RESEARCH PAPERS:
Makers of American Political Thought Series
Multiple authors
Liberalism Radicalized: The Sexual Revolution, Multiculturalism,
and the Rise of Identity Politics
Kevin Slack
The True Origin of Society: The Founders on the Family
Scott Yenor
Remaking the World: Progressivism and American Foreign Policy
Christopher Burkett
The Myth of American Isolationism: Commerce, Diplomacy, and
Military Affairs in the Early Republic
Marion Smith
UNIVERSITY
OF
KANSAS
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
EDWIN MEESE III CENTER
FOR LEGAL AND JUDICIAL STUDIES
In February, Edwin Meese stepped down as Director of the
Legal Center that now bears his name and stepped into his new
role as Ronald Reagan Distinguished Fellow Emeritus. He still
co-hosts regular meetings of both the Religious Liberty Forum
and the National Security Law Working Group, where legal
strategies in defense of constitutional rights and responsibili-
ties are developed and refined.
John G. Malcolm, Heritage’s Ed Gilbertson and Sherry
Lindberg Gilbertson Senior Legal Fellow, now leads the Center
on its mission to preserve and promote Constitutional princi-
ples and the rule of law.
Two “behind the scenes” initiatives conducted by the Center
are its Moot Court program and amicus conferences. In 2013,
the Center organized nine amicus conferences to help attor-
neys handling Supreme Court cases solicit “friend-of-the-
court” briefs on issues of tremendous public interest.
The Moot Court sessions—in which Supreme Court litigators
and scholars play the role of justices—help conservative advo-
cates hone the oral arguments they will make in landmark
cases before the High Court. It’s intense training, and the
advocates often sing our praises. Texas Attorney General Greg
Abbott declared that his day in the Supreme Court defending
EXPOSING THE EVILS OF
OVER-CRIMINALIZATION
Heritage carried its ongoing campaign against over-criminaliza-
tion from Capitol Hill to the national media. To foster greater under-
standing of the problem and potential solutions, Meese Center
scholars briefed dozens of lawmakers and staff members. Our
Over-criminalization 101 briefing alone drew more than 70 House
staffers in January.
That spadework paid off in May, when the House Judiciary
Committee formed a bipartisan Over-criminalization Task Force.
Meese Center Director John Malcolm testified at the Task
Force’s first hearing in June and helped coordinate a later hear-
ing that featured testimony from some of those victimized by
over-criminalization.
To alert the broader public to this problem, our scholars reached
beyond the Beltway. In addition to producing USA vs. You: The
Flood of Criminal Laws Threatening Your Liberty, they penned
numerous newspaper columns exposing outrageous cases such
as those of:
T Jeff and Jennifer Counceller, charged with “unlawful posses-
sion of a deer.” The Councellers had found an injured fawn on
their neighbor’s porch and nursed it back to health. Possible
penalty: up to 60 days in jail and $2,000 in fines.
T Alison Capo, whose 11-year-old daughter rescued an
endangered woodpecker from the family cat. U.S. Fish and
Wildlife fined Alison $535 and threatened jail for violating
the Federal Migratory Bird Act.
In 2013, the Meese Center publicized 11 over-criminalization inci-
dents in which authorities had charged individuals with crimes,
but not yet decided whether to prosecute. Uncomfortable in the
sunlight, authorities ultimately dropped the charges in nine of
those cases.
Judge Diarmuid O’Scannlain delivers the sixth annual Joseph
Story Distinguished Lecture in Allison Auditorium. Following
the Oct. 23 speech, Distinguished Fellow Emeritus Ed Meese
(background) presented O’Scannlain with Heritage’s Defender of
the Constitution Award.
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
the display of the Ten Commandments on state property was
“mild compared to what [he] had to encounter at Heritage.”
Said Jordan Lorence, Senior Counsel at the Alliance Defending
Freedom: “These practice sessions at Heritage have become
over the years a must stop for anyone arguing a case before the
Supreme Court promoting limited government, ordered lib-
erty, and a proper interpretation of the Constitution.”
TheMeeseCenterwasalsoactiveatthestatelevel.SeniorLegal
Fellow Hans von Spakovsky, our lead analyst on election law
reform,helpedstatesstandtheirgroundindefenseofvoteridenti-
ficationlawsandothereffortstopreservetheintegrityofelections.
In 2013, von Spakovsky testified on behalf of voter identifi-
cation laws in North Carolina and Kentucky. Several other
states, including South Carolina, Texas, and Florida, used von
Spakovsky’s research to respond to legal objections raised by
Eric Holder’s Department of Justice in opposition to voter ID
and other security measures, such as procedures to verify the
citizenship of voters. 
Von Spakovsky was also a leading voice in the debate that fol-
lowed the Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder,
which struck down the coverage formula of Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act (VRA). In testimony before the House
Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on the Constitution and
in numerous columns, he explained why Section 5—which was
based on 40-year old data—was no longer relevant to today’s
electoral process and how other sections of the VRA can easily
remedy any future instances of voting discrimination.
RICHARD AND HELEN DEVOS CENTER
FOR RELIGION AND CIVIL SOCIETY
Led by Jennifer A. Marshall, Heritage’s Director of Domestic
Policy Studies, the DeVos Center for Religion and Civil Society
concentrated on three key initiatives: fighting poverty, defend-
ingreligiousliberty,andcommunicatingwhymarriagematters.
Marshall and the DeVos team organized conservative efforts
to fight poverty and reform welfare to promote self-sufficiency
rather than government dependence. To build momentum,
Heritage hosted its third annual Anti-poverty Forum in the
Capitol. The event drew 100 “influentials” and major attention
from the media. Powerful remarks by Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah)
and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) received national coverage.
Throughout the year, the team also hosted an anti-poverty
working group with House and Senate staffers to educate law-
makersabouteffectivepolicyapproaches.Fieldtripsintroduced
Members of Congress to private ventures such as D.C.-based
Central Union Mission and, along with Bob Woodson of the
CenterforNeighborhoodEnterprise,totheCityofHelp/House
ofHope—privateorganizationsthataretransforminglivesdaily.
The DeVos team promoted effective anti-poverty propos-
als based on proven reform strategies. The Unfinished Work
of Welfare Reform, a National Affairs essay by Marshall and
Heritage Senior Research Fellow Robert Rector, charted the
direction for the conservative reform initiative. As the year
drew to a close, Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) and Sen. Lee were
poised to introduce legislation based on Heritage research and
policy work to cap the explosive growth of welfare spending
and to convert food stamps to a work-activation program.
TOP MEESE CENTER RESEARCH PAPERS:
The Newtown Tragedy: Complex Causes Require Thoughtful
Analysis and Responses
John Malcolm and Jennifer Marshall
Protecting the First Amendment from the IRS
Hans von Spakovsky
The Need for a Mistake of Law Defense as a Response to
Overcriminalization
Paul Larkin
Mandatory Voter Registration: How Universal Registration
Threatens Electoral Integrity
Hans von Spakovsky
How to Spot Judicial Activism: Three Recent Examples
Elizabeth Slattery
Jennifer Marshall, Director of the Richard and Helen DeVos Center
for Religion and Civil Society, welcomes attendees to a spirited panel
discussion of “The Marriage Debate: What’s At Stake,” March 25 in
the Allison Auditorium.
BENJAMIN
MYERS
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
The DeVos Center continued to co-host the Religious Liberty
Forum (RLF), which brings together more than 50 policy
experts, religious leaders, and conservative litigators to strate-
gize how best to thwart threats to domestic religious freedom.
A key focus in 2013 was the Obamacare rule forcing religious
employers, both nonprofit and for-profit, to provide employees
with health coverage for abortion-inducing drugs and contra-
ception or face ruinous fines.
MarshallandPolicyAnalystSarahTorrepenneddozensofcom-
mentariesexplainingwhyAmericansshouldn’tbeforcedtoleave
theirfaithatthechurchdoor.InconcertwithotherRLFpartici-
pants,theirworkencouragedhundredsofreligiousemployersto
filesuitschallengingthemandate.Atyear’send,theSupremeCourt
consolidated two cases (filed by Hobby Lobby and Conestoga)
andagreedtoheararguments.ItsrulingisexpectedinJune2014.
Anticipating two marriage cases heard during the Supreme
Court’s spring session, the DeVos Center developed and coordi-
nated a public education campaign to explain what marriage is
and what would be the consequences if policymakers redefined
the institution. The DeVos team briefed Members of Congress
on the issue and trained allies to discuss the issue persuasively.
Partnering with five allied organizations, we also published and
distributed the enlightening, plain-language booklet What You
Need to Know about Marriage.
One of the year’s most pleasant developments was the “over-
night”successofRyanT.Anderson,Heritage’sWilliamE.Simon
Fellow in Religion and a Free Society. In the often-strident
national debate over same-sex marriage, Anderson emerged as
a sensitive and sensible voice. Co-author with Robert George
and Sherif Girgis of the book “What is Marriage,” Anderson’s
arguments defending traditional marriage won plaudits in aca-
demic as well as legislative circles.
ButitwasaMarch26appearanceonCNN’s“PiersMorganLive”
that earned him popular accolades. Morgan seated Anderson in
the audience so he and guest Suze Orman could look down on
him from a stage. The elevated pair then proceeded to hector,
lecture, and insult the Heritage scholar for his “uneducated”
views on same-sex marriage. Anderson remained civil, stuck
to the facts… and won the argument. Media pundits discussed
his stellar performance—and the disgraceful conduct of his
“host”—for days afterward.
Anderson went on to write commentaries on the marriage
debate for CNN, The Washington Post, and dozens of other
major media outlets. In November, the Washington-based
Young Conservatives Coalition presented Anderson with its
“Buckley Award” in recognition of his significant contribution
to the conservative movement.
TOP DEVOS CENTER RESEARCH PAPERS:
Marriage: What It Is, Why It Matters, and the Consequences of
Redefining It
Ryan Anderson
Obamacare’s Many Loopholes: Forcing Individuals and Taxpayers to
Fund Elective Abortion Coverage
Sarah Torre
The Unfinished Work of Welfare Reform
Robert Rector and Jennifer Marshall
ENDA Threatens Fundamental Civil Liberties
Ryan Anderson
Adoption, Foster Care, and Conscience
Sarah Torre and Ryan Anderson
SLOWING THE RUSH
TO COMMON CORE
On July 1, Oklahoma State Superintendent Janet Barresi
announced the Sooner State would be downgrading its involve-
ment with a multi-state consortium working to develop standard-
ized tests based on the Common Core Standards.
Barresi’s announcement came as no surprise to Lindsey Burke,
Heritage’s Will Skillman Fellow in Education Policy (above). With
research reports, testimony in state capitols, and hundreds of
media interviews across the country, Burke and her Heritage col-
leagues have encouraged lawmakers, educators and parents to
take a closer, critical look at Common Core since 2009.
And that closer look has led to increasing disenchantment with
the program. In addition to Oklahoma, at least half a dozen other
states have pulled out of the testing consortia, and others are con-
sidering following suit.
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
CENTER FOR DATA ANALYSIS
In his 2013 State of the Union Address, President Obama pro-
posed raising the minimum wage. James Sherk promptly dis-
mantled the President’s arguments. Heritage’s Senior Policy
Analyst in Labor Economics, Sherk fired off a paper demon-
strating that most minimum-wage earners are young people
just entering the job market as part-timers—not single parents
working full-time jobs.
Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) was among those citing
Sherk’s data to argue that artificially raising the wage would
actually “hurt the people we want to help.” The President’s pro-
posal went nowhere.
Later in 2013, Sherk worked closely with Michigan’s Mackinac
Center for Public Policy to educate state lawmakers about the
economic advantages of expanding worker freedom. The effort
paid off when Michigan passed a right-to-work law.
That type of applied economic research is the bread-and-but-
ter of Heritage’s Center for Data Analysis. The CDA boasts one
of the nation’s largest privately held collections of public data-
bases. Using an integrated set of state-of-the-art economet-
ric models, CDA analysts are able to calculate how proposed
changes in tax, health, energy, education, entitlements, and
welfare policy will affect the federal budget, taxpayers’ wallets,
and the national economy.
In2013,LazofFamilyFellowReaS.Hederman,Jr.,tookthehelm
of the CDA when his predecessor, William Beach, was named
a Chief Economist for the Senate Budget Committee. Under
Hederman’sleadership,CDAscholarshadanextraordinarilysuc-
cessful year, producing timely economic analyses that weighed
heavily in some of the year’s most critical policy decisions.
For example, as states pondered whether or not to expand their
Medicaidprograms(asdesiredbythearchitectsofObamacare),
Policy Analyst Drew Gonshorowski produced a state-by-state
cost analysis. It showed that, even with Obamacare’s promise
of billions more dollars in federal aid, the expansion would—
within 10 years—raise Medicaid costs dramatically in 40 states.
The Wall Street Journal brought national attention to the find-
ings. And state think tanks used the study to fight Medicaid
expansion in their jurisdictions. Ultimately, 20 states resisted
the temptation of accepting “free” Medicaid expansion.
The CDA also actively combatted the Left’s brash contention
that “debt doesn’t matter.” While The New York Times’ Paul
Krugman assured Washington’s big-spenders that “a debt cri-
sis can’t happen to a country like the United States, which has
TOP CDA RESEARCH PAPERS:
How Will You Fare in the Obamacare Exchanges?
Drew Gonshorowski
Heritage Contributes to the Reopening of the White House’s
Social Cost of Carbon Discussion
Kevin Dayaratna and David Kreutzer, Ph.D.
Europe’s Fiscal Crisis Revealed: In-Depth Analysis of Spending,
Austerity, and Growth
Alberto Alesina, Ryan Bourne, Salim Furth, Ph.D., David Howden, Filip
Jolevski, Derrick Morgan, Miguel Marin, Matthew Melchiorre, Dalibor
Rohac and Veronique de Rugy
What is Minimum Wage: Its History and Effects on the Economy
James Sherk
Productivity and Compensation: Growing Together
James Sherk
“DO FEDERAL SOCIAL
PROGRAMS WORK?”
That question was asked and answered decisively in 2013 by
Dr. David B. Muhlhausen, CDA’s Research Fellow in Empirical
Policy Analysis.
An academic tour de force, Muhlhausen’s book reviews a wealth
of large-scale, scientifically rigorous evaluations of social pro-
grams intended to help American children, families, and workers.
Almost unanimously, he reports, those evaluations show the pro-
grams just don’t work.
Syndicated columnist George F. Will praised the book for present-
ing what he called “an avalanche of inconvenient evidence.” And
Charles Murray, the American Enterprise Institute’s W.H. Brady
Scholar, called the book “an invaluable service” adding: “Anyone
who wants to dispute [Muhlhausen’s] conclusion that federal
social programs have failed must confront the evidence he pres-
ents—and that evidence is overwhelming.”
CASI
LONG
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
itsowncurrencyandborrowsinthatcurrency,”Dr.SalimFurth,
CDA’s Senior Policy Analyst in Macroeconomics, penned “High
Debt Is a Real Drag.” This Issue Brief reviewed the research
that demonstrates how excessive government debt wreaks
severe economic damage. Budget Committee staff distributed
the paper to the entire Senate Republican Caucus, calling it one
of the best summaries of the issue ever.
Also impactful was a paper by Dr. David W. Kreutzer and
Kevin Dayaratna. They had already started analyzing how the
Administration’s push to reduce coal-generated electricity
would affect the economy when the President announced he
would have a “major policy announcement” regarding climate
change later that week. The pair quickly shifted into overdrive
and were able to release some of their findings the day before
the President’s speech. The full report, published just a few
days later, was the only on-topic economic impact study to
appear that week. Their timely work generated far-flung print
and broadcast media coverage, including a debate appearance
for Kreutzer on NPR.
Later in the year, Dayaratna proved the utility of rigorous
research in keeping the regulatory regime in check. Puzzled by
theAdministration’soutlandishestimatesofthesocietalcostsof
carbondioxideemissions,heputtheEnvironmentalProtection
Agency’s model of the Social Cost of Carbon (SCC) under the
microscope… and found an error. The EPA was forced to adjust
its model and redo its analysis. Its subsequent report lowered
theestimatedSCCby2.6%—adifferenceofhundredsofmillions
of dollars over the next few years. Because of Dayaratna’s eagle
eye, the EPA now has far less leverage in its campaign to punish
carbon emitters with even more expensive regulations.
CENTER FOR HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
Throughout the year, scholars in Heritage’s Center for Health
Policy Studies (CHPS) watched the Obamacare debacle unfold
precisely as they had predicted. Under the direction of Preston
A. Wells, Jr. Fellow Nina Owcharenko, CHPS analysts patiently
explained why the approach did not and could not work, how
state governments could limit the damage, and what lawmak-
ers should do next to help make high-quality, affordable health-
care available to all Americans.
Senior Research Fellow Edmund F. Haislmaier showed how
expanding Medicaid beyond its current reach would only exac-
erbate the difficulties that the troubled program already has
in providing access to care and improving health outcomes.
He also warned of the impractical demands and constraints
Obamacare imposes on states inclined to create their own
health insurance exchanges.
Haislmaier became a frequent visitor to statehouses across
the country where he testified before lawmakers and advised
public health officials as they struggled to come to grips with
the health law. Working in concert with Heritage’s Coalition
Relations team, CHPS scholars provided original research
and shared the findings of allied state-level think tanks with
local policy organizations and the Republican Governors
TOP: Alyene Senger, a Research Associate in our Center for
Health Policy Studies (CHPS), became a regular in discussions
about Obamacare on FOX News Channel’s “Sean Hannity Show.”
ABOVE: At Heritage’s January Policy Retreat for conservative
Members of Congress, CHPS Director and Preston A. Wells, Jr.
Fellow Nina Owcharenko discusses “Conservative Solutions to
America’s Health Care Challenges.”
SHEALAH
CRAIGHEAD
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
Association as they considered how best to cope with imple-
mentation of the federal law.
Ultimately, a score of states limited their liability by declining
to expand Medicaid. Another 34 opted to let the federal health
exchange handle enrollments, rather than try to create their
own exchange. By year’s end, many more states were doubtless
wishing they had taken that route, as well.
Senior Policy Analyst Chris Jacobs was seemingly omnipres-
ent—online, in newspapers, and on the airways—warning about
additional Obamacare-sparked problems lurking in the not-
too-distant future.
Refuting the Left’s claim that opponents of government-man-
aged health care have nothing constructive to offer, CHPS
published “After Repeal: Moving to Patient-Centered, Market-
Based Health Care.” The paper delineated five core principles
to drive successful health reform:
Let individuals choose, control, and carry their
own health insurance;
Let free markets provide the health care services
and insurance that people want;
Encourage employers to provide a portable health
insurance benefit to employees;
Assist those who need help through civil society, the
free market, and the states, and
Protecttherightofconscienceandunbornchildren.
THOMAS A. ROE INSTITUTE FOR
ECONOMIC POLICY STUDIES
Heritage’sRoeInstitutehasalwaysbeenahigh-energyresearch
shop. And in 2013, Roe analysts were highly successful in the
energy policy arena.
For years, Heritage has urged the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission to complete its review of the Energy Department’s
application to build a nuclear-waste repository at Yucca
Mountain. Federal law sets a time-period for completion of
the review, but in deference to the Administration’s opposition
to the repository, the NRC simply ceased all work on its near-
ly-finished review and let the deadline pass.
Opponents thought they had killed the project, but Heritage
refused to let it die. Roe scholars were among the first to
argue that the President acted in violation of the law by try-
ing to withdraw the application from the NRC. Digital Media
Director Robert Bluey aided the cause by filing a Freedom of
Information Act request that extracted documents from the
Commission that proved invaluable in the subsequent legal
challenge. Meanwhile, Roe analysts prepared in-depth policy
analyses showing that finishing the Yucca permitting process
was critical to America’s nuclear energy future.
In August, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued
a writ compelling the NRC to complete its review of the appli-
cation. In addition to paving the way toward construction of
America’s first long-term storage site for high-level radioactive
waste,therulingguaranteesthat$15billionworthofknowledge
accumulated during project development will not go to waste.
Roe scored a second nuclear waste victory in November when
a federal appeals court panel ordered the Energy Department
TOP CHPS RESEARCH PAPERS:
After Repeal of Obamacare: Moving to Patient-Centered, Market-
Based Health Care
Multiple authors
Health Insurers’ Decision on Exchange Participation:
Obamacare’s Leading Indicators
Edmund Haislmaier
Congress in the Obamacare Trap: No Easy Escape
Robert Moffit, Ph.D., Edmund Haislmaier and Joseph Morris
Defunding Obamacare: The Next Best Option
Chris Jacobs
Ten Broken Obamacare Promises
Alyene Senger
JamesGattuso,ourSeniorResearchFellowinRegulatoryPolicy,testi-
fiesMarch5beforeasubcommitteeoftheHouseJudiciaryCommittee
as it considers H.R. 367, the REINS Act. The proposal is designed to
strengthen Congressional oversight of the regulatory process.
FACE
TO
FACE
PHOTOGRAPHY
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
to zero out its nuclear waste fee until the Yucca Mountain proj-
ect is reopened or some other waste disposal program is estab-
lished. Heritage scholars have argued for years that the fee
should be permanently removed or at least suspended until the
government actually starts providing waste services. The court
decision does the latter.
In July, Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz folded two offices into
one. It was a reorganization recommended one month ear-
lier in “Turning the Page: Reimagining the National Labs in
the 21st Century Innovation Economy,” a report prepared by
Heritage and two other think tanks. Moniz’s announcement
came just days after Roe Institute Director Jack Spencer testi-
fied in support of the reorganization—and several other recom-
mendations for reducing duplication and inefficiencies in the
department—before the Energy Subcommittee of the House
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
Heritage was also the first think tank to analyze the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau’s initial foray into promulgating
regulations. Its findings were summarized well in the report
title: “The CFPB in Action: Consumer Bureau Harms Those It
Claims to Protect.”
Throughout the year, Heritage documented how the bureau—
created by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010—was fulfilling our
prediction that it would become one of the most powerful
and unaccountable federal agencies ever created. Diane Katz,
the Roe Institute’s Research Fellow in Regulatory Policy,
capped this remarkable series of reports with “Dodd-Frank
Mortgage Rules Unleash Predatory Regulators,” a December
Backgrounder that soon had pundits talking about the CFPB’s
“predatory practices.”
HERITAGE EXPOSES OVER-
WEGULATIONOF…WABBITS??
For years, Diane Katz, the Roe Institute’s Research Fellow
in Regulatory Policy, has penned “Tales of the Red Tape,” a
series of hair-raising stories of regulatory excess. The July 2
installment told the hare-raising tale of Marty the Magician.
Like any self-respecting magician, Marty Hahne uses a rabbit
in his act. And, thanks to the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
Marty has had to write up and file a “contingency plan”
detailing the steps he will take to assure the rabbit’s well-being
in the event of a natural or man-made disaster.
Why,youask?AccordingtotheUSDA,theruleaimsto“increase
the regulated community’s awareness and understanding about
their responsibilities to protect their animals in emergency
situations.” This cotton-tale was so ludicrous, The Washington
Post gave Marty’s plight front-page play two weeks after Katz
broke the story.
Diane Katz discusses costly overregulation of the energy
sector in a Sept. 12 appearance on FOX Business Channel.
Throughout the year, Katz repeatedly blew the whistle on
excessive regulation in her continuing series: “Tales of the
Red Tape.”
TOP ROE CENTER RESEARCH PAPERS:
House Water Resources Development Act: Ditch Senate Bill
Blunders, Reform the Army Corps
Emily Goff
EPA Power Plant Regulations: A Backdoor Energy Tax
Nick Loris, Kevin Dayaratna and David Kreutzer, Ph.D.
Red Tape Rising: Obama Era Regulation at the Three Year Mark
James Gattuso and Diane Katz
Proposed New Farm Programs: Costly and Risky for Taxpayers
Daren Bakst
Debt Limit: Options and the Way Forward
Romina Boccia
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
A Fellowship of Scholars
Heritage boasts six Distinguished Fellows. This designation recognizes individuals who,
in addition to their profound scholarship, bring a wealth of experience and achievement
to the table.
DISTINGUISHED FELLOWS—2013
STUART M. BUTLER, PH.D.
DistinguishedFellow
andDirector,Centerfor
PolicyInnovation
ELAINE CHAO
DistinguishedFellow
LEE EDWARDS, PH.D.
DistinguishedFellowin
ConservativeThought
KIM R. HOLMES, PH.D.
DistinguishedFellow
EDWIN MEESE III
RonaldReaganDistinguished
FellowEmeritus
JIM TALENT
DistinguishedFellow
GETTING AMERICA BACK TO GREAT:
HOLMES CHARTS THE WAY
More and more Americans worry that ours is a nation in decline.
And with good reason.
In 2013, Heritage’s newest Distinguished Fellow wrote the book
on this topic—literally.
In “Rebound: Getting America Back to Great,” Kim R. Holmes
traced how our nation has strayed from the principles and prac-
tices that made it the envy of the world. But the book doesn’t dwell
on the negative.
Holmes goes on to present a plan to revitalize our economy,
reclaim civic virtue, and restore American strength. The key:
restoring the natural connections between morality and freedom,
between civil society and limited government.
“Rebound” found a wide audience and many admirers. Among the
latter was Arthur Brooks, President of the American Enterprise
Institute. “Contrary to the pessimists,” Brooks wrote, “Holmes
argues that America’s greatest days remain ahead—if we build
on the values and freedoms that have made us great.”
That belief, shared by all Heritage researchers and analysts, is
reflected in every Heritage policy recommendation.
PHOTOS:
DAVID
HILLS
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
2013 Named Fellows:
Heritage is home to some of the brightest minds in the nation. And we have been blessed
with many donors who are committed to making sure we can continue to attract and retain
top-flight scholars. In 2013, we were able to offer two new fellowships:
CHUNG JU-YUNG FELLOW
FOR POLICY STUDIES
Edwin J. Feulner, Ph.D.
DAVID L. COFFEY FELLOW IN
GOVERNMENT STUDIES
Danielle Doane
ED GILBERTSON AND SHERRY
LINDBERG GILBERTSON SENIOR
LEGAL FELLOW AND DIRECTOR OF
RULE OF LAW PROJECTS
John Malcolm
MARILYN AND FRED
GUARDABASSI FELLOW IN MEDIA
AND PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES
Kenneth McIntyre
GROVER M. HERMANN FELLOW IN
FEDERAL BUDGETARY AFFAIRS
Romina Boccia
JAY KINGHAM SENIOR FELLOW
IN INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY
AFFAIRS
Brett D. Schaefer
F.M. KIRBY RESEARCH FELLOW IN
NATIONAL SECURITY POLICY
Baker Spring
MARK A. KOLOKOTRONES FELLOW
IN ECONOMIC FREEDOM
Ambassador Terry Miller
LAZOF FAMILY FELLOW
Rea Hederman
BERNARD AND BARBARA LOMAS
FELLOW
Steven Groves
HERBERT AND JOYCE MORGAN
SENIOR RESEARCH FELLOW
Nicolas Loris
E.W. RICHARDSON FELLOW*
James Jay Carafano, Ph.D.
HENRY SALVATORI VISITING*
FELLOW
Matthew Spalding, Ph.D.
WILLIAM E. SIMON FELLOW IN
RELIGION AND A FREE SOCIETY
Ryan Anderson
WILL SKILLMAN FELLOW
IN EDUCATION
Lindsey Burke
MARGARET THATCHER SENIOR
RESEARCH FELLOW
Luke Coffey
NORMAN B. TURE SENIOR
RESEARCH FELLOW
J.D. Foster, Ph.D.
JAY VAN ANDEL SENIOR ANALYST
IN TRADE POLICY
Bryan Riley
PRESTON A. WELLS, JR.
FELLOW IN HEALTH POLICY
Nina Owcharenko
JOHN, BARBARA, AND VICTORIA RUMPEL
FELLOW
Open
*NEW FELLOWSHIPS IN 2013
Media Trainer Beverly Hallberg debriefs
Margaret Thatcher Senior Research Fellow
Luke Coffey following a satellite interview in
Heritage’s Elmore Family TV Studio.
PHOTOS: DAVID HILLS
BENJAMIN
MYERS
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
Heritage Action: Fighting to Hold
Congress Accountable
“TheevolutionforHeritageAction,whichwasfoundedin2010andfunctionsasthepoliticalarm
oftheHeritageFoundation,hasbeenslowandsteady.Whatstartedasanotherpressuregroup
amonghundredshasnowbecome,inessence,theconservativemovement’sdailywhipteam….”
—Robert Costa, “Action Figure,” National Review Online, Oct. 30, 2013
P
resident Obama’s reelection led many pundits to
suggest that America had become a center-left
country. Political strategists advised conservatives to
“reevaluate” their principles.
Heritage Action’s response: “No way.”
Instead, Heritage Action encouraged politicians to eschew
shortsighted political gimmicks and unprincipled deals. Aided
by an army of savvy, committed grassroots activists, our pro-
fessional government relations team urged lawmakers to block
destructive policies and advance a truly conservative agenda.
In a city flooded with special-interest lobbyists and rent-seek-
ing associations, Heritage Action’s 30-person team proved a
counterforce to be reckoned with. As The Washington Post put
it: “Think of Heritage Action as the Clark Kent of the conser-
vative think tank world.” Even when the odds seemed insur-
mountable,HeritageAction’suniqueformulawasabletosecure
important legislative victories and rebuff what Washington’s
conventional wisdom suggested were inevitable defeats.
In the immigration battle, National Review characterized
Heritage Action as “David against the Gang of Eight’s Goliath,”
adding “Heritage Action is basically it” — conservatives’ last
line of defense against amnesty. The line held. The Senate
amnesty bill limped to passage in the upper chamber. With sup-
port there falling far short of prediction, the measure moved to
the House with zero momentum.
As a bipartisan gun control measure started to move in the
Senate, Heritage Action’s knowledge of the intricacies of
MIKE
TOPHAM
Heritage Action for America CEO Mike Needham kicks off a June 5 Sentinel Town Hall meeting in Virginia Beach, Va.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Senate procedure came into play. Conservative allies in the
Senate were able to delay a crucial vote on the bill, while
Heritage Action built intense grassroots pressure. Washington
insiders admired the two-front strategy, with National Journal
calling Heritage Action a “political force to be reckoned with”
on Second Amendment issues.
The White House fumed as three United Nations’ treaties,
including the Arms Trade Treaty and the Law of the Seas
Treaty, hit a brick wall on the road to Senate ratification. In
each instance, Heritage Action had convinced Senators to com-
mit publicly to opposing the pact. This ensured there would be
no backroom deals that undermined America’s sovereignty.
HeritageActionalsoblockedHouseconsiderationoftheSenate-
passedMarketplaceFairnessActbyworkingwithHouseJudiciary
Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) to develop a set of
principles that all but preclude any Internet Sales Tax. And for
the second year in a row, Heritage Action led the effort to stop
the passage of a $1 trillion food stamp and farm bill.
On every issue, Heritage Action made the superior policy argu-
ment. But that’s not always enough to guarantee victory. Given
the misaligned incentives in Washington, success requires
more than facts and moral persuasion. Lawmakers must feel
constant pressure to do the right thing, even if they do it for
political ends. To create that dynamic, Heritage Action contin-
ued to grow its grassroots infrastructure.
Heritage Action is recruiting and training an activist army that
has already made its voice heard in Washington. Just as many
Members of Congress know their Heritage Action Legislative
Scorecard score, they know the names of their local Heritage
Sentinel John Brill discusses strategies for expanding Heritage
Action’s army of grassroots activists at a June 7 meeting in
Roanoke, Va.
SENTINEL IN THE
SPOTLIGHT:
HOPE FOULDS
Like many Americans, policy and poli-
tics was mostly an afterthought for Hope
Foulds. That changed in 2003 when, caught
up in a massive layoff, she lost her job of
seven years. Hope began asking how this
could happen to her and, more importantly,
what she could do about it.
After a slew of unrewarding temp-to-hire jobs, Hope decided
at the age of 43 to take these questions to a bigger playing
field. Reluctantly, she left the workforce—of which she had been
a part of since age 18—to pursue a degree in International Studies
and Political Science. As her passion for American politics grew
stronger, Hope realized she had to be a part of the solution, that
she could play a meaningful role in bringing America back to its
core values and principles.
ItwasduringthattimethatHopefoundTheHeritageFoundation. As
she became more familiar with Heritage, “something clicked” and
Hope became involved with Heritage Action for America.
In June 2013, Hope connected with one of Heritage Action’s
Regional Coordinators and became intimately involved in the fight
to hold Congress accountable. “I finally saw my opportunity to get
in the game in an even bigger way,” she says.
That afternoon, Hope went home and started the Heritage Sentinel
Coalition of Tennessee for like-minded citizens in Knoxville, Tenn.
Since that time, Hope has been working with a small, but grow-
ing number of dedicated Tennesseans to build awareness and
develop a unique plan to hold their Members of Congress account-
able. In the past year, Hope met with her Representative to, in her
words, “discuss his commitment to conservative policy.”
In addition to attending numerous local Tea Party and GOP meet-
ings to promote conservative accountability and Heritage Action,
Hope has spent hours researching what effective measures are
being utilized across Tennessee and the country to build a grass-
roots army dedicated to passing conservative policy solutions
through Congress.
Why does she do it? “This is my passion,” Hope explains. “I hope
that my small part will help to leave this great country a better
place for my daughter and future generations.”
MIKE
TOPHAM
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
Action Sentinels. Heritage Action’s legislative success depends
on this growing group of 6,000 Sentinels. Highly motivated and
informed,theyasktoughquestionsattownhallmeetings,write
well-timed letters to their local editors, and use social media to
apply pressure to their Members of Congress.
In 2013, Heritage Action expanded its field program to 180
strategically selected congressional districts. In each district,
Regional Coordinators identified, trained, and deployed con-
servative activists.
JustasHeritageAction’sinside-outsideapproachtoCapitolHill
ledtostunningdefeatsforPresidentObama’slegislativeagenda,
so it advanced conservative policy in Washington’s hostile polit-
ical environment. On two of the year’s most important issues—
spendingandObamacare—HeritageActionwasattheforefront.
Early in the year, Heritage Action and other conservative
groups urged the House to pass a budget that balanced in 10
years without raising taxes. Within days, House Speaker John
Boehner (R-Ohio) publicly embraced the idea. Months later,
after the House passed a budget that would balance in a decade,
Politicoreportedthat“itwasawinningargumentacrossabroad
swath of politically moderate — and nearly split — districts.”
Later, Heritage Action’s push to defund Obamacare altered
the political landscape. While Congress was on August recess,
Heritage Action launched a nine-city tour featuring Heritage
President Jim DeMint and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) to focus the
nation on Obamacare’s failures. According to The Wall Street
Journal, the defund strategy was “deployed with precision.”
The effort, which ultimately coincided with the law’s disas-
trous rollout, painted President Obama and many of his con-
gressional allies as uncompromisingly loyal to a demonstrably
unworkable, unaffordable, and unpopular law.
Heritage Action also helped introduce numerous pieces of leg-
islationmodeledonHeritageFoundationideas.Theseincluded
Sen.MikeLee’s(R-Utah)highereducationreformbill,Rep.Jeb
Hensarling’s (R-Texas) bill to end Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
and Rep. Raul Labrador’s (R-Idaho) bill to protect religious
liberty.
“Since its founding in 2010, Heritage Action has worked aggres-
sively to influence lawmakers on issues from immigration to
agriculture to the budget,” Time magazine wrote. “It uses a
three-pronged strategy to twist arms on Capitol Hill: lobbying
members on hot-button issues, ranking them publicly on how
they vote, and getting word out far and wide when lawmakers
buck the conservative line.”
That combination, Time concluded, is “unparalleled in either
party.” And very, very effective.
At a Young Professionals “meet-up,” Heritage Foundation President Jim DeMint (far left) stresses the need for young conservatives to make
lawmakers aware of their policy views. Among those listening: Andrew Hemby (left center), Mark Early (right center) and Dan Abebayehu
(far right). Heritage Action sponsored the June 6 meeting in Richmond, Va.
MIKE
TOPHAM
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Developing Conservative Leaders
for the Next 40 Years
The conservative movement is here to stay. And Heritage is fully committed to ensuring
that it can draw upon a wealth of principled, intelligent leadership for years—and
generations—to come.
T
hat’s why we run the largest internship program of
any think tank in the nation. In 2013, this rigorous
program selected 185 young people and gave
them graduate-level instruction as well as real-
world experience working shoulder-to-shoulder with our
researchers, policy analysts, and marketing professionals.
Under the direction of Heather Pfitzenmaier, Heritage’s Young
Leaders Program welcomed 110 delegations of students and
young professionals to our D.C. headquarters and briefed them
on conservative principles and Heritage policy recommen-
dations. Her staff also spent significant time “circuit riding”
among the nation’s college campuses. Often in partnership
with local conservative groups, they spoke with students
at 87 events on campuses in 25 states, voicing conservative
principles and viewpoints that are too seldom presented in
academic circles today.
State, local, and foreign think tanks waving the conservative
banner thirst for continuing education as well. That’s why
Heritage hosts the annual Resource Bank meeting. Organized
by Bridgett Wagner, Director of Coalition Relations, the 2013
meeting in Orlando drew nearly 500 conservative think tank
executives, policy experts, and activists for three days of pol-
icy symposia, strategy sessions, “best practices” management
training, and coalition building.
Recognizing that no place stands in greater need of education
than Capitol Hill, Heritage conducts three programs to serve
that student body. Over the course of 20 training sessions, our
Class of ’13—Heritage summer interns gather round President Jim DeMint for their class photo.
ROB
CANNON
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
Congressional Fellows program gives junior congressional staff
members the tools needed to defend conservative principles
and to develop and promote sound public policy. In 2013, we
graduated a record 78 Congressional Fellows.
In conjunction with Hillsdale College, we offer more advanced
instruction for our Madison Fellows—senior Hill staffers com-
mitted to advancing the conservative agenda. The Madison
Fellows meet monthly for roundtable discussions with national
policy, political and opinion leaders.
Heritagealsoconductsaprogramtoprepareselectedyoungpro-
fessionals—bothontheHillandoff—forfutureleadershiproles
in the arenas of national security and foreign policy. Running
from March to September, the program incorporates lecture
programs,educationalfieldtripsandsocialnetworkingevents.
Thirteen Marshall Fellows completed the program in 2013.
2013 Named Interns
H. N. AND FRANCES C. BERGER
FOUNDATION INTERNS
Sarah Wallace, Charleston Southern University
Nicholas Dau, Pennsylvania State University
Courtney Murphy, Baylor University
Stevan Novakovic, University of South Carolina
Joseph Griffith, Ashland University
JOHN AND BARBARA BRUNING INTERN
Drew Ringley, Clemson University
MARY H. CAMPBELL FOUNDATION INTERN
Ariel Rigdon, Hillsdale College
RICHARD EARL CARTER MEESE
CENTER INTERN
John Gormally, Georgetown University
GENE D’AGOSTINO MEESE CENTER INTERN
Philip Hammersley, Hillsdale College
KANTNER FOUNDATION INTERN
Ashlee Smith, George Mason University
BERNIECE AND WILLIAM
GREWCOCK INTERNS
Melika Willoughby, Hillsdale College
Aaron Sandford, Hillsdale College
Robert Geringer, University of Illinois –
Urbana Champaign
Benjamin Frizzell, Oklahoma State University
Grace McElhenny, Georgetown University
DAVID A. KING INTERN
Michael Cirrotti, Providence College
KEVIN KLINE INTERN
James McGlone, Harvard University
KEVIN KOOKOGEY MEESE CENTER INTERN
Alisan Van Fleet, The College of William and Mary
ROBERT MAIR MEESE CENTER INTERNS
Morgan Bennett, Belmont University
Kyle McCollum, Eastern Illinois University
ROBERT S. AND JANET L. MILLER
FOUNDATION INTERNS
Phillip Shattan, University of Rochester
Elizabeth Henry, Yale University
Kathryn Freedman, Duke University
Daniel Huizinga, Baylor University
CARTER AND MOYERS INTERN
Riley Westmoreland, Vanderbilt University
NICHOLSON FOUNDATION INTERNS
Gerardo Cruz, University of Puerto Rico
Jessica Cruzan, Centre College
FULA AND ENRICO PELITTI INTERN
Yvette Betonce, Miami University at Ohio
PILGRIM FOUNDATION INTERNS
Sophie Giberga, University of Georgia
Seth McKinnes, Patrick Henry College
DORIS AND RICHARD PISTOLE INTERN
Kelsey Warner, Duke University
RAY FOUNDATION INTERN
Katy Doran, University of Florida
Christopher Bilezkian, Southeastern University
Claire McMullen, Princeton University
HAMILTON RODDIS FOUNDATION INTERNS
Mr. Andrew Scarpitta, Boston University
Sally Platt, Washington and Lee University
Elizabeth Simson, Boston University
Stefan Gochev, Washington and Jefferson College
Grace Pyo, Wheaton College
JORDAN SAUNDERS INTERN
Eugenia Purcar, Pepperdine University
GREG SHEEHAN MEESE CENTER INTERN
Michael Flynn, University of Wisconsin
Yaniv Nahon, American University
COL. CHARLES B. AND
SALLY G. STEVENSON INTERN
George Davis, Virginia Military Institute
GEORGE W. TIPPINS INTERN
Noelle Suarez-Murias, Vanderbilt University
TOM TRACY INTERN
Tyler Becker, Swathmore College
RON WEINEL INTERN
Sarah Edwards, University of Georgia
SAMUEL L. WESTERMAN
FOUNDATION INTERNS
Luke Beckmann, University of Maryland
German Larrain, University of Wisconsin
WILLIAM M. YOUNG INTERN
IN THE MEESE CENTER
Thomas Bower, Virginia Military Institute
THE ROBERT ZINSER MEESE
CENTER INTERN
Melissa Burgess, Southern Methodist University
Heritage interns have lots of question for Brian Gunia, an Assistant
Professor at Johns Hopkins’ Carey Business School, during a work-
shop on conflict resolution in the workplace.
JOHN
HARRINGTON
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Heritage Members:
Sustaining the American Spirit
No matter how far away they may be, Heritage members feel close to the foundation.
Perhaps it’s because they know they are always welcome. If you plan to visit D.C. for
whatever reason, please call our membership office at 800-546-2843. We would love to give
you a tour of our offices and to thank you personally for helping make Heritage the leading
conservative organization in America.
A
t The Heritage Foundation, we make every effort to
meet with members, wherever they may be—to tell
you of our plans and to hear your ideas about how
best to build an America that offers freedom and
opportunity to all.
It was no fluke that the first order of business for incoming
President Jim DeMint was to meet with as many members as
possible as quickly as possible. Hence, “The Presidents’ Tour,”
an 11-city pilgrimage with outgoing President Edwin Feulner.
At every stop along the way, the two Presidents met with hun-
dreds of members, talking about the challenges facing our
nationanddiscussingnewstrategiesforwinningthemostcriti-
cal policy debates ahead. More than 4,800 members turned out
for that tour.
Within weeks, DeMint followed it up with smaller, more
informal meetings in cities such as Milwaukee, Pittsburgh,
and Raleigh, N.C. During the congressional recess in August,
DeMint was on the road again, meeting with members in nine
cities while on the “Defund Obamacare Tour.”
Keeping in touch with members is part of the institutional cul-
ture at Heritage. It’s why senior headquarters staff and regional
representatives make the time to visit with hundreds of donors,
one-on-one, throughout the year. And it’s part of the reason
why Heritage is not only the nation’s most broadly supported
think tank, but also one of its most trusted non-profits.
Heritage Foundation members demonstrated that trust in 2013
by donating in record amounts—some $101.9 million. Heritage
Action for America received record-setting contributions as
well: $8.7 million in total.
Such generous support is humbling as well as gratifying. We
know that you have joined with us out of a shared commitment
to this nation’s founding principles and a determination to
restore her to greatness. We will continue to do everything in
our power to justify the trust you have placed in us.
RICHARD
GREENHOUSE
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
2013 Heritage Foundation Founders
CHAIRMAN’S
CIRCLE
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Allison
The Crail Foundation
Shelby Cullom Davis Foundation
The Richard and Helen DeVos
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Rick Gaby
Henry E. Haller, Jr. Foundation
Hanwha Group
Howard Charitable Foundation
Mr. Robert Katz
Dr. Patrice Richardson, M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Saunders III
Mr. Pike H. Sullivan
TRUSTEE’S
CIRCLE
The CHEAR Foundation
Mr. George W. Cowan
Mr. and Mrs. Cortlandt S. Dietler
Mr. William Gardner
Mercer Family Foundation
Sarah Scaife Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Uihlein
FOUNDERS
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Amos, Jr.
Amway
Ms. Betty A. Anderlik
The Anschutz Foundation
The Armstrong Foundation
The AWC Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Barney
Barney Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. J. Bayard Boyle, Jr.
The Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation
Ms. Gladys Choate
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Coffey
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Colbert, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. Leo W. Cook
Adolph Coors Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Paul L. Davis, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Drinkward
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Edgerly
Mrs. Lucille D. Eisenhower
Miss Dorothy M. Engle
William Howard Flowers, Jr.
Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Foster Friess
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Galbraith
Gardner Grout Foundation
Gleason Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. John Nils Hanson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hathorne
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry L. Hayden
The Grover Hermann Foundation
Albert and Ethel Herzstein Charitable
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. J. Robert Johnston
Mr. Cary Katz
Mr. Michael R. Keisacker
Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Keiser
The Kingdom Fund
Charles Koch Charitable Foundation
Mr. Mark Kolokotrones
Mr. Barry R. Leaton
Mr. Homer E. Lytle
Mr. and Mrs. Gregg Mamikunian
Mr. and Mrs. George L. Mayer
Robert S. and Janet L. Miller Family
Foundation
M. J. Murdock Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Francis P. Murphy
Mr. and Mrs. Joe P. Murphy
Mr. Donald J. Neseth
Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation, Inc.
The Frederick and Julia Nonneman
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Roderick Odom
Dian Graves Owen Foundation
Charles Maxfield and Gloria F. Parrish
Foundation
The Robert S. & Star Pepper
Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Podd
Mr. and Mrs. Dick J. Randall
Mr. C. Dwight Reese
The Roe Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Saliba, Sr.
Saliba Family Charitable Foundation
Mr. Francis G. Shepardson
B.K. Simon Family Charitable
Foundation
Mrs. Natalie Sirkin
Mr. Willis B. Skillman
Mr. Larry H. Smead
Mr. Thomas J. Smith
Sorenson Legacy Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Strong, Sr.
Mrs. Carol Ann Sulau
Tippins Foundation
Mr. Robert J. Ulrich
Ms. Christina F Vanderwende
Ms. Ardis Walters
The Walton Family Foundation
Lillian S. Wells Foundation
Mr. Richard Wells
Mrs. Marion G. Wells
Ms. Mary Alice Willcockson
Ms. Karen A. Wright
Mr. Thomas R. Zucker
11 Founders have asked to
remain anonymous.
Attendees at the Dallas Presidents’ Tour Event rise to recite the Pledge of Allegiance.
JOYCE
BOGHOSIAN
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
JOYCE
BOGHOSIAN
SHEALAH
CRAIGHEAD
SHEALAH
CRAIGHEAD
SHEALAH
CRAIGHEAD
TOP: Among those gathered at the table for the Presidents’ Tour dinner in Chicago
were (from right to left) Heritage Founder Michael Grebe, outgoing President Ed
Feulner, Founder Mike Keiser, incoming President Jim DeMint and Trustee Tony
Saliba. MIDDLE: Young President’s Club members attend a panel discussion at the
annual President’s Club Meeting in Washington, D.C. BOTTOM LEFT: Trustee Brian
Tracy and his wife Barbara in deep conversation with Heritage Vice President
John Von Kannon at the Presidents’ Tour event in Los Angeles. BOTTOM RIGHT:
Nathaniel Ellis (far right) of Heritage Action for America talks with supporters
between sessions at the President’s Club Meeting.
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
2013 Heritage Foundation Associates
PREMIER
ASSOCIATES
Mr. John Anderson
Mr. Lee A. Beaman
Bell Charitable Foundation
H.N. and Frances C. Berger Foundation
Mr. Guenther W. Bizer
Mr. and Mrs. Craig R. Brown
Mr. Neil W. Butler
Mr. Michael J. Daugherty
Mr. and Mrs. Carl A. Davis
Mr. Lawrence F. DeGeorge
Helen Diller Family Foundation
Herbert H. and Barbara C. Dow
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. J. Dean Eckersley
ExxonMobil
Mr. Edward M. Foley
Mr. and Mrs. Frank D. Freudenthal
General Electric Company
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin H. Goehring
Mr. Robert M. Gordon
The Harding Foundation
The Holman Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Arnold H. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Kellen
Mr. Marvin C. Koeper
Mrs. Nancy Lagrande
Mr. William Lange
The Fred A. Lennon Charitable Trust
Dr. and Mrs. Robert T. Lewit
Mr. James B. McWethy
Mr. and Mrs. Walter S. Montgomery, Jr.
The Morris Foundation
Ms. Fula Pelitti
The Dr. P. Phillips Foundation
PhRMA
Mr. and Mrs. Gary L. Pilgrim
John William Pope Foundation
Mrs. Spelman Prentice
Reynolds American
Mrs. G. Ralston
Arthur N. Rupe Foundation
Mr. John Boyd Seal
Searle Freedom Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich R. Simmons
William E. Simon Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Brian S. Tracy
Mr. Michael S. Turner
Mr. Bart J. Twomey
Mr. and Mrs. Jeff P. Van Dyke
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Winzenried
Mrs. Fern G. Wright
EXECUTIVE
ASSOCIATES
Altria Client Services
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Brickman
Ms. Gretchen Brooks
Mr. and Mrs. John Bruning
Mr. and Mrs. David W. Caldwell
Mr. V. Perry Carter
Cedar Branch Foundation
Challenge Foundation
The Chisholm Foundation
Mr. Arthur Cinader
Cisco Systems Inc.
ClearChannel
Ms. Darden K. Coors
Douglas and Maria DeVos Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Allen Dickson
Mr. Frederick M. Dierks
The William H. Donner Foundation, Inc.
El Pomar Foundation (Colorado only)
Erickson Family Charitable Foundation
Ms. Virginia A. Fairfield
Mr. and Mrs. Philip M. Friedmann
Mr. Michael E. Giobbe, Jr.
Google, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Grossman
The Hamill Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Clay W. Hamlin III
Mr. and Mrs. Ron J. Hazlett
Heavy Construction Systems
Dr. Roy C. House
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph V. Hughes, Jr.
Issa Family Foundation
Mr. Bruce Jacobs
Mrs. Leona C. Kampert
Mr. Gerald M. Kirke
LeMans Corporation
Lockheed Martin Corp.
Mr. and Mrs. William Lowndes III
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Mair
Mrs. Virginia Mann
The Markkula Foundation
Mr. Frederick Martin
Mrs. James P. McAleer
Mr. and Mrs. Scott William McEachin
Mr. and Mrs. Hal A. McVey
Mr. and Mrs. Norman J. Metcalfe
Mrs. Sandra J. Miller
Mr. Michael T. Monahan
National Association of Broadcasters
Mr. L. C. Neely, Jr.
Mr. Van A. Nguyen
Mr. and Mrs. Darryle L. Owens
Mrs. Ruth Peckham
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Plute
Ray Foundation
Raytheon Company
Mr. and Mrs. John Rivard
Mr. Robert W. Rust
Satter Foundation
Mrs. Connie Schuette
Mr. Warren A. Stephens
Strong Foundation Trust
Sunmark Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Trzcinski
Visa International
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace E. Volwiler
Mr. and Mrs. Duane M. Weise
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Weiss
Mr. and Mrs. Wells K. Wohlwend
Mr. and Mrs. H. Hunter White, Jr.
The Robert and Audrey Zinser
Charitable Foundation
ASSOCIATES
Mr. David Joel Adams
Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Adler
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert F. Amelio
Mrs. Jean S. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Anderson
Mrs. Faye B. Andrews
Apex Foundation
Mr. Edward J. Armstrong
Larry P. Arnn, Ph.D.
The Asan Institute
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Ascher
Mr. Grady Ash
Left: Heritage Associate Wendy Damron and Legacy Society Member Suzanna Thieblot socialize during Heritage’s 40th Annual Leadership
Conference in April. Right: Attendees enjoy catching up over coffee at Heritage’s annual Chicago Luncheon.
TORI
SOPER
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Ms. Elva Asher
Mr. William S. Atherton
Mr. Warren Atkins
Mr. and Mrs. Laurel Auxier
Mr. Brian B. Avery
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Axen
Dr. and Dr. John A. Baden
Mr. J. Allen Baird
Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Banning
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Barkei
Mr. Peter Barrett
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Baukol
Mr. and Mrs. George Beck
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Becker, Jr.
Miss Ethel M. Bein
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce P. Bengtson
Mr. and Mrs. Roger S. Benson
Benwood Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Bertch
Mr. Nicholas Bez
Bialkin Family Foundation, Inc.
Ms. Betty L. Blake
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Bochnowski
Mr. and Mrs. Drew Boersma
Mr. Stephen W. Boesel
Mr. and Mrs. Herman D. Bolden
Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Bouton, Jr.
Mr. Darnall W. Boyd
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce H. Branyan
Ambassador and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer
Dr. and Mrs. Bart J. Broadman
Mrs. Carole B. Brown
Mrs. Catherine M. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Bruce
Mr. Daniel W. Bunn
Mr. and Mrs. David Burckel
Mr. Peter D. Burgess
Edward H. Butler Foundation
Mr. Mark A. Caldwell, Sr.
Mr. James J. Callan
Mrs. Nan J. Cameron
Mr. and Mrs. Don M. Camp, Sr.
The Mary H. Cain Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Carlson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Carter
Mr. Richard Castiglia
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Castleberry
Mr. James F. Causley, Jr.
Chevron Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Donald L. Clark
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Clark
Mr. Mark L. Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Collins
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Combs
Comcast Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Cook
Mr. William M. Cook
Mr. Gary Coughlan
Mr. and Mrs. Garland D. Cox
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Cox, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Crail
Earlane and Sam Croom Foundation
Mr. Brian Cunningham
Mr. and Mrs. Jason Damron
Mr. and Mrs. O. Leonard Darling
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Davis
Mr. Kenneth Davis, Jr.
Mr. William Davis
John R. and M. Margrite Davis
Foundation
Ms. Mary Lou Des Champs
Daniel and Pamella DeVos Foundation
Ms. June Dickson
Dodge Jones Foundation
Donahue Family Foundation, Inc.
DonorsTrust
Mr. Kenneth D. Duggin
Mrs. Patricia H. Dunlop
Earhart Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Eaton
Mr. Douglas C. Edman
Ms. Patty A. Edwards
William J. and Julia M. Edwards
Foundation
Mr. James Eggers
Mr. and Mrs. Christopher Ekstrom
Mr. Robert W. Ellis
Mr. George T. Elmore
Mrs. Connie L. Elsaesser
Mr. and Mrs. Denny Elwell
Evenstad Family Foundation
Ms. Diane Fatouros
Mr. B. E. Faulkner
Mr. A. Doug Ferris
Mr. Donald L. Fischer
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Foxley
Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Franzen
Mrs. E. Eiline Fritzberg
Mr. Stanley E. Fulton
Mr. Larry Garatoni
Mr.andMrs.CharlesStedmanGarber,Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Roland E. Garlinghouse
Mr. Bob W. Garthwait, Jr.
Mr. Alonzo E. Gates II
Mr. and Mrs. J. Patrick Gavaghan
Mr. Richard Geary
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Ed W. Gilbertson
Mr. and Ms. Robert S. Giles
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Gillette, Sr.
Mr. Bernard G. Gogel
Pierre F. and Enid Goodrich Foundation
Mr. Keith Gordon
Mr. Thomas S. Gordon
Mr. and Mrs. Leo G. Graham
Mr. Jerome Green
The Albert M. and Lyda M. Green
Foundation
Richard S. Griffith
Mr. and Mrs. Curtis Grina
Mr. Robert R. Grusky
Mr. Bob Guess
Mr. Michael Henry Guetz
Mr. Daniel L. Guild
Ms. Debra Hall
Mr. and Mrs. Harold E. Hamilton
Heritage Associate David Erickson (left) and Legacy Society
Member James McGinley share a laugh during a Presidents’ Tour
reception in Los Angeles.
SHEALAH
CRAIGHEAD
MEMBERSHIPLEVELS
Heritage welcomed more than 112,000 new members in 2013. Our
range of membership levels and benefits can accommodate all.
LEVEL STARTING AT
Basic ........................................................................ $25
Patriots Club..........................................................$100
Young President’s Club........................................$250
President’s Club................................................$1,000
Executive Committee.......................................$2,500
Premier President’s Club.................................$5,000
Associate........................................................ $10,000
Executive Associate..................................... $25,000
Premier Associate ........................................ $50,000
Founder.........................................................$100,000
Trustees’ Circle............................................$500,000
Chairman’s Circle ....................................$1,000,000
For details on the benefits attached to each level, please call
(800) 546-2843 or visit MyHeritage.org.
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
Mr. and Mrs. Willis Hamilton
Mr. Lewis P. Hanson
Dr. Robert F. Hartsook
Mr. and Mrs. Glenn W. Hasse, Jr.
Ms. Reta K. Haynes
The Herbold Foundation
Mr. K. William Hess
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hinkle
Hitachi, Ltd.
Mr. and Mrs. Russell A. Hitt
Mr. George Hixon
Mr. Forrest E. Hoglund
Mr. and Mrs. Edson P. Holland
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence P. Holleran
Mr. and Mrs. Kent L. Holtgrewe
Mr. Gary D. Hoover
Mr. Herbert Hostetler
Mr. Wallace E. Hull
Mr. and Mrs. Randall K. Hunter
The Huston Foundation
Mr. Paul J. Isaac
Mr. Kurt R. Jaggers
Mr. and Mrs. Mark L. James
Mr. Ralph E. Janes III
Mr. Frank J. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. R. Howard Johnston, Jr.
Mr. Raymond B. Jones Sr.
Mr. and Ms. Michael Jude
Ms. Rebecca L. Julian
Mr. Richard F. O. Kaiser
Mr. George W. Karpus
Mrs. Nellie Keas
Mr. Harry P. Keegan IV
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Bruce Kern
Mr. and Mrs. Don F. Kesler
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Kildoo
Mr. David A. King
Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Kinn
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Kirk
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Kirkland
Mr. and Mrs. True H. Knowles
Mr. and Mrs. E. Aaron Koelsch
Ms. Sophia Kontras
Mr. and Mrs. Kevin S. Kookogey
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kozlowski
Mr. Richard A. Kreitzberg
Vernon Krieble Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Kurtz
Mr. Robert Lamb
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Lantinga
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick W. Laver
Legett Foundation
Mr. Edward C. Levy, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Levy
Ms. Karen Lien
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Liptak
Mr. W. R. Loichot
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Lozick
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey L. Massey
Mr. Walter McDonald
Mr. Jack McKee
Mr. Jim H. McManus, Jr.
Fr. John E. McMurry
Mr. and Mrs. Denman K. McNear
Gregory McNece
Mrs. Patricia K. McPherson
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Michener
Mrs. Dae Miller
Mr. Harvey L. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Ted Millice
Gerrish H. Milliken Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey E. Mills
Mr. Clarence E. Mitchell
Mitsui USA
The Montreal Economic Institute
Mr. Christopher S. Moody, Sr.
Mrs. William H. Moore
Mrs. Carol A. Morris
Mr. Ronald H. Muhlenkamp
Mr. Terence H. Murphree
Mr. William J. Nasgovitz
The Negaunee Foundation
Annette Nibley Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce S. Nicholas
Dr. Sheldon S. Nicol
Mr. David W. Niemiec
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Nord
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Nores
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Nostrand
Mr. Herman J. Obermayer
Mrs. Laura P. O’Brien
Mr. James J. O’Neill
Mrs. Franca G. Oreffice
Mr. Joseph Osborne
Dr. K. N. Pandelidis
C.N. and Maria Papadopoulos Charitable
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Parsons
Mrs. Geraldine L. Payne
Mr. and Mrs. William Payne
Mr. John Peck, Jr.
William Penn Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Pepper
Lovett & Ruth Peters Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Peterson
Mr. and Mrs. Guido M. Pichini
Dr. L. Harrison and Mrs. Janet Pillsbury
The Hon. Jayne H. Plank
Ms. Loretta Poindexter
Mr. and Mrs. Allen Bruce Porter
Ms. Adrienne Price
Mr. Jack R. Purcell
Mr. John H. Quinn, Jr.
Mr. Lloyd M. Ranger
Dr. and Mrs. Bobby Rankin
Mr. David Raring
Mr. and Mrs. Chuck D. Reite
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Remington
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Rice
Mrs. Dorothy B. Roberts
Mrs. Lisenne Rockefeller
Mr. and Mrs. John O. Roeser
Mr. Sheldon Rose
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Rothenberger
Mr. and Mrs. Stanford Rothschild
Mr. Raymond E. Rowland, Jr.
Mr. Jerome D. Ryan
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Rydin
Mr. Jeff D. Sachs
Mr. Thomas Sanfacon
Dr. Joseph F. Schneider, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Don Scifres
The Sence Foundation
Mrs. Verna R. Shaub
Mr. Mark Shevitz
Louis and Nellie Sieg Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Siegel
Mr. Thomas Siegel
Mr. Richard A. Silvey
Mr. John P. Simon
Mr. Charles Smith
Mr. David Smith
Mr. Owen R. Smith
Mr. Randell A. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen H. Smith
Mr. Robert Neil Snodderly
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Snyder
Mr. and Mrs. Craig Staley
Mr. Vincent J. Stanley, Sr.
Dr. Walter Stevenson
Stiles-Nicholson Foundation
Ms. Diane J. Stites
Mr. and Mrs. Roger W. Stone
Mr. Joe Chat Sumner III
Mr. and Mrs. Kermit S. Sutton
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Swaim
Mr. Joseph Duane Swanson
Swearingen Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Gary L. Swenson
The Sidney A. Swensrud Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Chris J. Taylor
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Tesarik
Mr. and Mrs. Mike Thom
Ms. Martha L. Thomas
Mr. Arthur Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. Raymon F. Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. Clifford L. Thomson
Mr. Thomas Tipi
Mrs. Erma Jean Tracy
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Tucker
Mr. J Robert Tullis
Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Turrentine
Ed Uihlein Family Foundation
Steve & Cindy Van Andel Foundation
Mr. John K. Vanier
Verizon
Mrs. Lynn W. Via
Count Ferdinand von Galen
Mr. James R. Voss
Mr. and Mrs. Bill Wagner
Mr. and Mrs. Emory Waldrip
Mrs. Gloria M. Walker
Mr. Charles Reynolds Watkins, Jr.
Katharine Audrey Webb Foundation
The Weiler Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald B. Weinel
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Weiss
Marion G. Wells Foundation
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Wheeler, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Paul H. Wick
Dr. and Mrs. Charles J. Willey
Mr. George W. Williams
Ms. Roberta Winters
Mr. and Mrs. James Wintersteen
The Woodford Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Woodhouse
Mr. John Wymer, Jr.
Mr. Wirt Yerger III
Ms. Leslie Young
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Young
Mr. Dan Zimmerman
Mr. William Zimmerman
36 Associates have asked to
remain anonymous.
Founders Janet and Robert Miller, longtime supporters of Heritage’s
intern program, joined Ed Feulner (far left) and Jim DeMint(far
right) on stage during the 2013 Presidents’ Tour.
SHEALAH
CRAIGHEAD
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
Founders Carolyn and Dick Randall visit with fellow Heritage supporter Vivienne Fisher (right) during a reception at the Fall Annual
Leadership Conference.
Left: Founders Robert and Star Pepper grace the halls of the Library of Congress to join a dinner honoring Ed Feulner’s 37 years of service
as Heritage President. Right: Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) huddles with Heritage supporter Joanne Cheung and Associate Tom Gordon at the
Annual Leadership Conference.
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
SHEALAH
CRAIGHEAD
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
Mr. Ralph W. Aker
Mr. Samuel P. Alexakis
Ms. Janice E. Anderson
Mr. David L. Applegate
Mr. Justo Arias
Ms. Elva Asher
Ramon D. Baker, M.D.
Mr. Lynn K. Beck
Mr. Chet Beiler
Mr. and Mrs. Jackson Berkey
Mr. David L. Bethany
Mr. James H. Biggs
Mr. and Mrs. Rob Bilger
Mr. Harold Black
Mr. William Blazer
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Blecker
Mr. John A. Blumgren
Mr. Fred Boyd
Miss Concetta Brescia
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Broadwell
Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Broderick
Mrs. Doris Brown
Mr. Roger A. Brown
Mr. Steven E. Burgauer
Mr. Stephen M. Bussa
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Button
Mr. William J. Campion
Mr. D. J. Carder
Mr. Allan T. Carlson
Mr. Don Carter
Mr. William Casale
Mr. Walter Castles
Mr. John Charshafian
Ms. Gladys Choate
Ms. Cynthia Clampitt
Mr. George E. Clausen
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Colbert, Sr.
Mrs. Della F. Cole
Dr. Robert D. Coli
Dr. Samuel J. Colton
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Conway
Mr. and Mrs. David Cox
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Cox
Ms. Mary M. Crego
Mr. Robert L. Dahlberg
Mr. Quentin Darmstadt
Mr. Gary L. Dawson
Mr. Jay W. De Graw
Mr. James W. Diamond, C.L.U. Ch.F.C.
Ms. Delma F. Dickerman
Mr. and Mrs. James N. Dickinson
Mr. Kent D. Dixon
Mrs. Mae Duggan
Mr. Jan Eberhardt
Mr. Robert F. Eckenrode
Mrs. Connie L. Elsaesser
Dr. and Mrs. David L. Erickson
Ms. Joan M. Ermish
Mr. and Mrs. John Erthein
Mr. and Mrs. Sherman Ewing
Ms. Jean Fenn Farwell
Mr. Harry L. Fenstra
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Ferns
Mrs. Norma J. Fewry
Mrs. Lou Fineran
Mrs. Louise Fischer
Mr. and Mrs. Terry L. Fleischman
Mr. David T. Fleming
Mr. Jason L. Ford
Mr. Robert B. Forsyth
Ms. Eleanor Fox
Ms. Terry Fredrickson
Mrs. and Mr. Mary Lou Frenzel
Mr. and Mrs. Allen H. Frerichs
Mr. and Mrs. Frank D. Freudenthal
Mr. James P. Furlong, Jr.
Mrs. Sheryl Furtado
Mr. James Gallagher
Chief Irvin H. Gatlin
Mr. Charles Gentry
Mr. Michael E. Giobbe, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin H. Goehring
Ms. Joan K. Graham
Mr. Leslie Gratz
A Legacy of Opportunity
for Future Generations
In writing the Constitution, America’s Founders were consciously establishing a legacy
for future generations. Their explicit purpose, stated in the preamble, was to “secure the
blessing of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.”
M
embers of the Heritage Legacy Society share the Founders’ concern for future generations. In 2013, HLS members
apprised us of estate plans that include more than $39 million in new commitments  to Heritage. Co-chaired by Rae
and Belden Bell of Marshall, Va., and Marion Wells of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., the Heritage Legacy Society welcomes
members who wish to contribute to our cause through their estates or other planned gifts.
Heritage Legacy Society members Skip and Martha Ann Hunter connect with President Jim DeMint during a reception at the Fall Annual
Leadership Conference. Right: Also in San Diego for the Annual Leadership Conference: Founders Robert and Mary Lou Parrish.
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Mr. Albert Haag
Mr. Richard Hajeck, Sr.
Mr. Earl H. Hall
Mr. Lynn Hall
Mr. James Hardie, Jr.
Mr. Robert C. Harrison
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hathorne
Mr. Matthew J. Hayduk
Mr. John Heimkes
Mr. Arthur C. Henry IV
Mr. Steve Hetman
Mr. James R. Higgins
Ms. Mary Hine
Ms. Virginia M. Holmes
Mr. Edward H. Hoppe III
Mr. Jan Hottinga
Mr. Al Huntoon
Dr. Jong Chin Hwan, Ph.D.
Mr. Jose M. Illan
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Jackson
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Jacobson
Mr. and Mrs. Mark L. James
Mr. Robert E. Jensen
Mr. Robert R. Jones
Mr. Lawrence Judd
Ms. Mary Jo Kahler
Ms. Mary Karpin
Mr. Robert Katz
Mr. Patrick Keavney
Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Keiser
Ms. Ethlyn C. Kennedy
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kettler
Mr. William Kiehl
Mrs. Patricia A. Klinge
Mr. Marvin C. Koeper
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Kuhns
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Kurtz
Mr. and Mrs. Roy E. Landstrom
Mr. Larry L. Larson
Mr. and Mrs. R. Thomas Law
Mr. Barry R. Leaton
Dr. and Mrs. Robert T. Lewit
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Linnen, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. Forest Lisle
Dr. Bernabe Loret de Mola
Mr. Alton Lovingood
Mr. Thomas B. MacCabe, Jr.
Mrs. Christine Madsen
Mr. Robert V. Main
Mr. Joel C. Mandelman
Mrs. Carol Martin
Mr. O. J. Mc Gill
Colonel and The Honorable James D.
McGinley, (Ret.)
Colonel John Mc Mahon, Jr. USAF
(Ret.)
Fr. John E. McMurry
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Meng
Ms. Mary F. Miles
Mrs. Dae Miller
Mr. Wesley Mills
Mrs. Eleanore B. Moderwell
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Morgan
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Morrison
Dr. Phillip Mosbaugh
Ms. Gail A. Mosk
Ms. Katy A. Moss
Mr. Kenneth Mueller
Mr. Terence H. Murphree
Mr. Anthony Nardozza
Mr. Raymond Nater
Dr. Sheldon S. Nicol
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest L. Nicolay, Jr.
Ms. Nancy Nordeen
Mr. Robert S. O’Brien
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Ohrlund
Mr. Ron Olive
Mr. Gordon L. Overbey
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Parrish
Mr. E. A. Paschal
Mr. William A. Patterson, Jr.
Mrs. Jacqueline Pechmann
Mr. David Pennings
Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Pepper
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Petika
Mr. Richard R. Petticrew
Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Pettingill
Mr. David L. Phelps
Dr. F. M. Phelps
Mr. L. George Platt
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Plute
Mr. Paul S. Polkowski
Mrs. Lucille A. Porter
Mr. Edward E. Renfro
Ms. Cheryl Reynolds
Mr. L. R. Richards
Mrs. and Dr. Sally Richards
Mr. Lee Riegler, Jr.
Mr. Rueben R. Riemer
Mr. Gerald F. Riseley
Mr. C. Keith Robbins
Mrs. Rachel R. Robinson
Mr. Gary F. Roeber
Ms. Imogene Ross
Mrs. Paul Ryan
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Rydin
Mrs. Nancy Rynders
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Saliba, Sr.
Mr. W. Schmidter
Mr. William Schnarr
Ms. Susan Paul Scott
Mr. Wade Shrivalle
Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich R. Simmons
Mr. Kirby Simmons
Mr. and Mrs. Jim Sink
Mrs. Dilys J. Smith
Mr. Larry Smith
Ms. Joan E. Spire
Ms. Pamela Stanton
Mr. and Mrs. Earl Stoltzfus
Nancy Lee (and Fred) Stone
Ms. Jane S. Stoner
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth A. Strand
Mr. and Mrs. Kaare Strom
Ms. Marcella French Sutton
Mr. and Mrs. Weymouth D. Symmes
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Tashner
Mr. and Mrs. W. Rich Terry
Ms. Martha L. Thomas
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Thompson
Mrs. Allan F. Trane
The Honorable Oliver Transue
Mr. Harry J. Treherne
Ms. Shirley Turnage
Ms. Mary Van Houten
Mrs. Martha Walker
Mr. Stephen R. Warsaw
Mr. Michael A. Weakley
Mr. Eric West
Mr. Edward Weyer
Mrs. Patti White
Mr. Hugh Williams
Mr. Ben J. Wilson
Ms. Roberta Winters
Mr. and Mrs. Wells K. Wohlwend
Mrs. Anne G. Wright
Mrs. Ruth J. Wunder
Mr. G. S. Wysocki
Mr. Michael D. Zagnacky
Mr. Steve Zavadsky
Ten Heritage Legacy Society members
wish to remain anonymous.
WITH GRATITUDE, WE HONOR THE MEMORY OF THOSE HERITAGE LEGACY SOCIETY MEMBERS
WHOSE GIFTS WE RECEIVED IN 2013:
Mr. John Anderson
Mrs. Lenore C. Anderson
Mr. Edward J. Armstrong
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Becker, Jr.
Miss Ethel M. Bein
Mr. Guenther W. Bizer
Mr. Neil W. Butler
Ms. Sue H. De Shazo
Mr. Frederick M. Dierks
Mr. and Mrs. Cortlandt S. Dietler
Mr. and Mrs. J. Dean Eckersley
Mrs. Lucille D. Eisenhower
Miss Dorothy M. Engle
Ms. Virginia A. Fairfield
Mr. Edward M. Foley
Mrs. Norma B. Franzen
Mr. William Gardner
Ms. Debra Hall
Mr. Henry E. Haller, Jr.
Mr. John A. Hoopes
Dr. Roy C. House
Ms. Miki Iwata
Mr. Bruce Jacobs
Mr. Arnold H. Johnson
Mr. R. Howard Johnston, Jr.
Mr. Richard F. O. Kaiser
Mrs. Leona C. Kampert
Mr. Michael R. Keisacker
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Kildoo
Mr. Walter K. Klaus
Mrs. Maxine Kortlever
Mrs. Nancy Lagrande
Mr. Frederick W. Laver
Mr. Homer E. Lytle
Mrs. Virginia Mann
Mr. Ray E. McGowan
Dr. John D. Milburn III
Ms. Sandra J. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Francis P. Murphy
Mr. Donald J. Neseth
Mr. Rodney M. Norris
Mr. Richard L. Oldham
Mrs. Geraldine L. Payne
Mrs. Ruth Peckham
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Podd
Mrs. G. Ralston
Mr. Lloyd M. Ranger
Mr. C. Dwight Reese
Mr. Francis G. Shepardson
Mrs. Natalie Sirkin
Mr. John D. Sitterson
Mr. and Mrs. S. Harrow Smith
Mr. Vincent J. Stanley, Sr.
Mr. William A. Strong, Sr.
Mrs. Carol Ann Sulau
Mr. Pike H. Sullivan
Mr. William Susen
Mr. C. Maston Thomas
Mr. Thomas Tipi
Mr. Bart J. Twomey
Ms. Christina F Vanderwende
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Walton
Mrs. Dorothy L. White
Ms. Mary Alice Willcockson
Mrs. Fern G. Wright
Mr. Thomas R. Zucker
Five Heritage Legacy Society
members wished that their gifts
remain anonymous.
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
HONORING DONOR INTENT
When giving to any nonprofit organization,
you should be able to count on three things:
Your gift will be used to advance the
organization’s mission.
Any restrictions you place on your gift
will be honored.
You will be treated with respect.
Unfortunately, many philanthropic organizations have broken faith
with their donors.
At The Heritage Foundation, we regard your support as a trust.
We hold ourselves strictly accountable to you, and we pledge
always to respect your philanthropic intent. Indeed, our Articles of
Incorporation demand it. Should any major donor desire a written
contract clearly stating the purpose and intent of the donation and
how it shall be spent, we will gladly sign it. Moreover, we make the
President of Heritage personally responsible for answering donor
questions and reporting expenditures of donor funds.
This is our solemn pledge to you: When you contribute to The
Heritage Foundation, your intent as a donor is always honored,
never forgotten.
Founders Ron and Chenza Lazof find themselves flanked by the two Presidents—Ed Feulner (left) and Jim DeMint.
SHEALAH
CRAIGHEAD
President’s Club member George Hermann gets the lowdown on
what Congress is up to during the President’s Club meeting in
Washington, D.C.
STEVEN
E.
PURCELL
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION* STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES*
As of December 31, 2013 Year ended December 31, 2013
ASSETS OPERATING REVENUES
Cash and cash equivalents $4,841,314 Contributions:
Receivables 6,138,893 Individuals $60,899,282
Prepayments and other assets 833,388 Foundations 12,941,097
Total current assets 11,813,595 Corporations 2,283,723
Total operating contributions 76,124,102
Investments 160,554,346
Receivables, net 3,440,454 Investment withdrawal 4,933,005
Property and equipment, net 62,204,027 Program revenue 196,598
Other assets 650,373 Rental and other income 3,686,842
Total long-term assets 226,849,200 Total other operating income 8,816,445
TOTAL ASSETS $238,662,795 TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES 84,940,547
LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS OPERATING EXPENSES
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $9,621,002 Research 25,064,810
Notes payable 503,752 Education 22,786,191
Total current liabilities 10,124,754 Media and government relations 11,393,096
Total program services 59,244,097
Notes payable 18,068,237 Fundraising 15,190,794
Deferred obligations and planned gifts 16,219,141 Management and general 2,693,504
Total long-term liabilities 34,287,378 Total supporting services 17,884,298
TOTAL LIABILITIES 44,412,132 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 77,128,395
Unrestricted net assets: NET GAIN FROM OPERATIONS 7,812,152
Board designated 106,349,354
Undesignated 44,452,852 NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Temporarily restricted net assets 40,048,457 + Net investment gain 16,081,807
Permanently restricted net assets 3,400,000 + Restricted contributions 29,156,244
Total net assets 194,250,663 ( - ) Depreciation 3,105,907
( - ) Interest Expense 477,385
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS $238,662,795 ( - ) Investment withdrawal 4,933,005
( - ) Change in restricted net assets 4,560,535
TOTAL NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES 32,161,219
CHANGE IN NET ASSETS 39,973,371
NET ASSETS - Beginning of year 154,277,292
NET ASSETS - End of year $194,250,663
2013 OPERATING REVENUES
Program Revenue and Other Income
Fundraising
Contributions
Management and General
Programs
*Preliminary results - final audited financial statements will be available on or after July 31, 2014
2013 OPERATING EXPENSES
90%
20%
3%
77%
10%
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
The Heritage Foundation
RIGOROUS RESEARCH / MAXIMUM IMPACT / HERITAGE AT 40 AND BEYOND
OUR MISSION: To formulate and promote conservative public policies based on the
principles of free enterprise, limited government, individual freedom, traditional
American values and a strong national defense.
214 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE N.E. | WASHINGTON, DC 20002
(202) 546-4400 | HERITAGE.ORG
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Thomas A. Saunders III, Chairman
Richard M. Scaife, Vice Chairman
J. Frederic Rench, Secretary
Meg Allen
Douglas F. Allison
Larry P. Arnn, Ph.D.
The Hon. Belden H. Bell
Midge Decter
The Hon. Jim DeMint
Edwin J. Feulner, Ph.D.
Steve Forbes
Todd W. Herrick
Jerry Hume
Kay Coles James
The Hon. J. William Middendorf II
Abby Moffat
Nersi Nazari, Ph.D.
Robert Pennington
Anthony J. Saliba
William E. Simon, Jr.
Brian Tracy
Phillip N. Truluck
Barb Van Andel-Gaby
Marion G. Wells
HONORARY TRUSTEES
David R. Brown, M.D., Chairman Emeritus
The Hon. Frank Shakespeare
OFFICERS
The Hon. Jim DeMint, President
Phillip N. Truluck, Executive Vice President
David S. Addington, Group Vice President
Edward T. Corrigan, Group Vice President
John P. Fogarty, Group Vice President
Geoffrey J. Lysaught, Group Vice President
James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., Vice President
Becky Norton Dunlop, Vice President
Michael M. Gonzalez, Vice President
Derrick Morgan, Vice President
John Von Kannon, Vice President and Senior Counselor
Genevieve Wood, Vice President
As a nonprofit 501(c)3 organization, we rely on the financial contributions of the general public: individuals, foundations and corporations.
We accept no government funds and perform no contract work. We welcome your support.
“The Heritage Foundation didn’t invent conservative principles, but since 1973 the Washington-
based think tank can take credit for providing the salt to the life of the modern conservative political
movement…. Rest assured that under DeMint’s leadership Heritage and Conservative Principles will
continue to advance and America and Freedom will be the better for it.”
—FORMER CONGRESSMAN BOB BEAUPREZ, TOWNHALL.COM, JAN. 21, 2013
“The evolution for Heritage Action, which was founded in 2010…, has been slow and steady. What
started as another pressure group among hundreds has now become, in essence, the conservative
movement’s daily whip team, with Needham often competing directly with Boehner’s whips to kill bills,
amend legislation, and woo the right flank.”
—NATIONAL REVIEW ONLINE, OCT. 30, 2013
“Heritage Action, the advocacy arm of the Heritage Foundation think tank, has been a key player in
rallying support for the ‘Defund Obamacare’ movement.”
—THE WASHINGTON POST’S “POST POLITICS,” OCT. 3, 2013
“When it comes to influence, Heritage routinely ranks as the single most popular right-wing think tank
in the country among the media. In its annual 2012 think tank survey, media watchdog FAIR found
Heritage topped the partisan ranks again with 1,540 press citations, a figure, it should be noted, that
outnumbered the combined citations of the top two most-cited left-wing groups.”
—THE NATION, MAY 10, 2013
214 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE N.E. | WASHINGTON, DC 20002
(202) 546-4400 | HERITAGE.ORG
