OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL
FAVORITISM TO NONE
A N N U A L R E P O R T
2 0 1 4
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL
FAVORITISM TO NONE
ANNUAL REPORT
2 0 1 4
1
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
I
t was the year in which “hope and change” up and went.
Millions of Americans remained jobless or under-em-
ployed. Wages remained stagnant. The work-force
participation rate sank to 62.7 percent—a 36-year low.
While families struggled, Big Government got bigger. Fed-
eral spending topped $3.5 trillion, pushing the national
debt over the $18 trillion mark. Businesses staggered
under an additional $73 billion in regulatory costs. And
dependency on government grew apace.
Roughly one in three Americans received some type of
means-tested welfare assistance. More than 46 million
Americans were on food stamps. Fifty years into Washing-
ton’s$22trillionwaronpoverty,thepovertyrateremained
essentially unchanged.
The progressive approach fared no better abroad. The Rus-
sian “reset” ended with Moscow’s invasion of Crimea and
Ukraine. The “Pivot to Asia” didn’t stop China from under-
mining democracy in Hong Kong and extending its territo-
rial claims throughout the South China Sea. Despite “dia-
logue,” Iran’s mullahs doggedly pursued the nuclear bomb.
And the politically driven withdrawal from Iraq allowed
the “JV” terrorists of ISIS to put our hard-won victory
there in jeopardy.
Small wonder that the August CNN/ORC International
Poll found public trust in the federal government at an all-
time low. By November, Americans had had enough. Con-
servatives scored overwhelming victories at both state and
federal levels.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL,
FAVORITISM TO NONE
A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE PRESIDENT
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
2
Of course, The Heritage Foundation and our sister organi-
zation, Heritage Action for America, had been promoting
conservative policy solutions and fighting for conserva-
tive principles throughout the year. As always, our “1-2-3
Punch” of research, communications, and advocacy
got results.
RESEARCH—REORGANIZED
AND RAMPED UP
To assure that our research program remains anchored
to and fully supportive of the three pillars of conservative
philosophy—a strong economy, a strong civil society, and
a strong defense—we realigned our research centers into
three major institutes:
•	 The Institute for Economic Freedom
and Opportunity.
•	 The Institute for Family, Community,
and Opportunity.
•	 The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for
National Security and Foreign Policy.
We then charged each institute with producing an annual
index that objectively assesses how well our nation is far-
ing in these key areas.
The “Index of Economic Freedom”, known and respected
around the world, came out in January. This 20th edi-
tion revealed America as the only nation in the world to
have suffered a decline in economic freedom for seven
straight years.
The impact was huge. PricewaterhouseCooper LLP asked
permission to use Index research to educate their clients
about the real-world consequences of economic freedom.
Morethanadozencollegetextbookauthorsalsorequested
andreceivedpermissiontouseIndexessays,nationreports,
and graphics in upcoming editions of their work.
In July, The Institute for Family, Community, and Oppor-
tunity introduced its inaugural “Index of Culture and
Opportunity.” Tracking 10-year trends in 31 social and
economic factors that directly affect opportunities for the
American people to flourish, it revealed a mix of good news
and bad. For example, while abortion and violent crime
rates have decreased, the marriage rate has declined and
unwed childbearing continues to rise. Jennifer Marshall,
Index co-editor and Vice President for the Institute, called
for “sustained focus, among policymakers and in neighbor-
hoods across the country, to get back on track and improve
opportunity for all Americans.”
The Davis Institute for National Security and Foreign
Policy launched a six-month, all-hands-on-deck research
effort to develop the first-ever “Index of U.S. Military
Strength.” Slated for February 2015 publication, the Index
presents an in-depth assessment of existing and emerging
threats to our national security and our capacity to defeat
them and advance U.S. interests globally.
While preparing this forward-looking analysis, The Insti-
tute continued to provide cutting-edge research aimed at
halting the deterioration of American military power. Its
2014 Defense Reform Handbook proved an invaluable guide
3
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
for lawmakers seeking to exercise effective oversight of
defense policy management.
COMMUNICATIONS—WINNING
AMERICANS’ HEARTS AND MINDS
While Congress remains the principal “target audience” for
Heritage policy proposals, in 2014 we ramped up our out-
reach to another key audience: the American public. The goal:
to inspire and activate Main Street support for conservative
policies that can expand opportunity for all.
With the help of market research conducted under our Amer-
ican Perceptions Initiative, we engaged five major sectors
of the general public on an unprecedented scale. In social
media, newspaper columns, radio and TV interviews, town
hall meetings and speaking tours, we expressed our policy
ideas in terms calculated to appeal most to the audience(s)
being addressed.
Nowhere was this strategy employed more consistently than
in the two online media outlets Heritage launched in 2014:
The Daily Signal and America Within.
The Daily Signal is a completely reimagined iteration of The
Foundry,theHeritageblogthatsetthethink-tankstandardfor
online communications. More than a blog, The Daily Signal is
a multimedia news organization featuring original reporting,
plain-talk presentations of Heritage research findings, and
cutting-edge policy commentary by Heritage experts.
Our research-based approach to digital journalism debuted
in June and has proved hugely popular. The Daily Signal
attracted nearly 34 million visitors in 2014, more than qua-
drupling our reach from the previous year.
America Within met with great success as well. The digital,
multimedia site is designed to appeal to millennials, many
of whom eschew political labels. These folks, “the moveable
middle,” are a key audience conservatives must win over if we
are to achieve lasting public policy victories.
IN MEMORIAM
HERITAGE BID A FINAL FAREWELL TO THREE
LONGTIME BOARD MEMBERS AND A FAITHFUL
SUPPORTER
DOUGLAS ALLISON LEE KLINETOBE
RICHARD M. SCAIFE FORMER U.S. REP.
PHILIP CRANE
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
(From left): Anthony J. Saliba, Chicago, Ill.; Meg Allen, Geneva,
Switzerland; Robert Pennington, Darien, Conn.; Brian Tracy,
Solana Beach, Calif.; Kay Coles James, Fairfax Station, Va.;
Larry P. Arnn, Hillsdale, Mich.; David R. Brown, Chairman
Emeritus, Oklahoma City, Okla.; Nersi Nazari, Atherton,
Calif.; Edwin J. Feulner, Alexandria, Va.; Thomas A. Saunders
III, Chairman, New York, N.Y.; Jim DeMint, Greenville,
S.C.; Jerry Hume, San Francisco, Calif.; Phillip N. Truluck,
Bethesda, Md.; J. William Middendorf II, Little Compton, R.I.;
Abby Moffat, Bethesda, Md.; Belden H. Bell, Marshall, Va.;
Barb Van Andel-Gaby, Duluth, Ga.; Todd W. Herrick, Bay
Harbor, Mich.; Marion G. Wells, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; Steve
Forbes, New York, N.Y.; Midge Decter, New York, N.Y.
(Not pictured: William E. Simon, Jr., Los Angeles, Calif.; and
Frank Shakespeare, Honorary Trustee, Deerfield, Wis.)
DAVID
HILLS
PHOTOGRAPHY/FRASIER
PHOTO
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
4
To that end, America Within presents inspirational sto-
ries about entrepreneurs, community leaders, and cul-
ture-shapers with just a touch of politics and policy. The
telling of each tale reflects a worldview that values free enter-
prise, individual liberty, and limited government. The site’s
stories, profiles, and videos have found a receptive audience.
Though not launched until July, America Within attracted
250,000 unique readers in its first six months—126,000 of
them in December.
Heritage’s 2014 social media initiatives left us more capable
than ever of taking our case directly to the American people.
The Foundation now has more Facebook friends and Twitter
followers than EITHER political party—precisely the com-
munications infrastructure needed to carry the conservative
message to the next generation.
ADVOCACY: EDUCATING LAWMAKERS
INSIDE AND OUTSIDE THE BELTWAY
The final punch in the Heritage enterprise’s 1-2-3 combina-
tion is legislative advocacy. Here, we use an inside/outside
strategy, with Heritage Action professionals working with
lawmakers and their Capitol Hill staff while a grassroots army
of volunteer activists engages “back home.”
Heritage Action made a major commitment to growing that
army in 2014. They increased the number of regional coor-
dinators—who recruit volunteers and keep them informed
about policy recommendations and legislative strategy—to
13. By year’s end, our Sentinel network comprised more
than 10,500 trained volunteers—easily outnumbering the
ground troops recruited by President Obama’s Organizing
for America.
Their reach extended further as well. Sentinels are what the
pollsters call “influencers.” With their connections in civic
HONORS GIVEN…
… HONORS RECEIVED
Our Salvatori prize in American Citizenship went to two
families who stood up for religious liberty by fighting the
Obamacare mandate to cover abortion-inducing drugs
and devices. The Green Family, owners of Hobby Lobby,
and the Hahn Family, owners of Conestoga Wood
Specialties, took their challenge to the Supreme Court…
and won.
On Oct. 22, Heritage’s Edwin Meese III presented D.C.
Circuit Judge Janice Rogers Brown with our Defender of
the Constitution Award.
Dr. Ryan T. Anderson’s effectiveness in making the
case for marriage earned him two honors: the National
Organization for Marriage’s Public Square Leadership
Award and the Catholic Citizens of Illinois’ St. Thomas
More Citizenship Award. The U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops also appointed him as a consultant to its Com-
mittee on the Defense of Marriage.
The Republic of Poland awarded James Dean, Manager
of International and Diplomatic Programs, the Officer’s
Cross of the Order of Merit for his “outstanding contri-
bution to the building of democratic society and
democratic institutions.”
The Republic of Hungary awarded Distinguished Fellow
Lee Edwards its Officer’s Cross of Order of Merit for
“his strenuous ” work documenting the “cold war history
of the Central-Eastern European countries and the sins
of communism.”
Distinguished Fellow Kim R. Holmes received the Fount
of Freedom Award for the defense of liberty in his book
“Rebound: Getting America Back to Great.”
Heather Pfitzenmaier, Director of our Young Leaders Pro-
gram, was honored as a rising young conservative star in
her own right when Red Alert Politics named her to its
annual “30 under 30” list.
“Heather Pfitzenmaier, director of Heritage’s Young Leaders
Program, was named one of the nation’s most influential young
conservatives in Red Alert Politics’ “30 under 30” list.
5
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
HERITAGE |
BY THE NUMBERS
212
public lectures & seminars
212
briefings for members of congress
33.8 MILLION
visitors to “the daily signal”
473,755
“morning bell” e-newsletter subscribers
and hundreds of thousands
of members
(who made all the above possible)
THANK YOU!
11.5 MILLION
29
116
backgrounders
35
legal memoranda
1.7M
facebook “likes”
470K
twitter followers
1,440
commentaries in
major print outlets
2,831
radio
interviews
204 issue briefs
congressional testimonies
VISITORS TO
HERITAGE.ORG
groups, business associations, Tea Party organizations, and
political clubs, Sentinels were able to share policy information,
political developments, and legislative scorecards with 1.4 mil-
lion others. Now with Sentinels in every state and every con-
gressional district, Heritage Action has one of the most exten-
sive and influential political action networks in the nation.
VICTORY THROUGH
COORDINATED EFFORT
Heritage’s 1-2-3 punch produced a number of significant
policy victories throughout the year. In the Spring and again
during the post-election Lame Duck session, Congress
resisted efforts to pass a permanent “Doc Fix” bill that would
have only increased Medicare’s unfunded liabilities. Our win-
ning argument: physician reimbursement must be addressed
as part of a much larger reform of Medicare, one that puts the
ailing program on a sound, sustainable fiscal footing.
An Allison Center analysis called for a minimum fleet of 11 air-
craft carriers to project U.S. military strength abroad. It influ-
encedtheDefenseDepartment’sdecisiontocontinuefunding
the11th
carrier:theUSSGeorgeWashington.And13additional
Heritage recommendations, including continued production
of Tomahawk land-attack cruise missiles, were incorporated
into the FY 2015 National Defense Authorization Act.
The“GangofSeven”immigration“reform”billwasstoppedcoldin
theHouse.Heritage’sresearch-inspiredmessage—thattheamnesty
provisions were “unfair, unworkable, and unaffordable”—was
echoed repeatedly in House floor debates. Ultimately, those argu-
mentscarriedtheday—firstontheHillandlater,onElection Day.
When President Obama subsequently announced that, not-
withstanding the clear expression of the people’s will, he was
going to implement amnesty via executive action, Heritage
scholars quickly produced a factsheet identifying three
ways Congress could use its power of the purse to block the
president’s maneuver.
The Lame Duck session that ended the 113th Congress gave
Heritage one last victory for the year. Conservatives in the
HouseGOPcaucusbeatbackaleadershipattempttorelaxthe
ban on earmarks.
PREPARING THE PATH FOR VICTORIES
IN 2015…
Boxers know that, to land punches with maximum effect, they
need to have their feet firmly planted. That’s why we hosted
our annual Conservative Members Retreat in February,
attended by 35 Members of Congress. Themed “A Worthy
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
6
Fight,” Heritage scholars and Heritage Action strategists
outlined a positive legislative reform agenda that would
help get the country back on track and bolster support
back home.
By Spring, lawmakers were running with that agenda. Sen
Mike Lee, R-Utah, had introduced the Higher Education
Reform and Opportunity Act. Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas,
pushed the Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeown-
ers Act. And Sen Tim Scott, R-S.C., offered equally bold school
choice legislation, the CHOICE Act.
The 2014 elections ushered in many new lawmakers who
are keenly interested in furthering an effective conserva-
tive agenda. To help Capitol Hill’s freshmen find their feet
fast, Heritage held a two-day orientation session in Novem-
ber. Eighteen soon-to-be Members of Congress attended the
“how-to sessions,” which covered everything from staffing
offices to providing constituent services to remaining true
to principles.
And at year’s end, Heritage and Heritage Action were put-
ting the final touches on “Opportunity for All, Favoritism to
None,” a 192-page policy guide for the 114th Congress. When
released at our Conservative Policy Summit in January, 2015,
“Opportunity for All” will give lawmakers—and the American
public—a clear view of how implementing a bold, conserva-
tivelegislativeagendacanenhancefreedom,opportunity,and
prosperity for all.
… AND BEYOND
Heritage also embarked on three-year expansion program to
establish an even more solid footing on Capitol Hill. The proj-
ect includes turning a new acquisition, 236 Massachusetts
Ave., into apartments for our year-round intern program, and
renovating the first four floors of our 208 Massachusetts Ave.
building. The enlarged physical presence will let us work even
more closely with allies, who can use the renovated space
for offices and meetings, and expand our own research and
communications operations.
We are tremendously grateful to an anonymous couple whose
offer of a $20 million matching gift to get this project off the
ground inspired Dr. Patrice K. Richardson and members of
her family to make an eight-figure contribution in honor of
the late E.W. “Rich” Richardson. When the construction dust
settles in 2017, Heritage will stand tall as a “center for free-
dom” in the heart of our nation’s capital.
Heritage fought the good fight throughout 2014, and our
unique 1-2-3 punch knocked down many wrong-headed pro-
posalsanddeliveredmanysignificantvictories.TheAmerican
people endorsed our call for limited government at the polls,
andweenter2015withtremendousoptimismand confidence.
We are keenly aware, however, that we wouldn’t be in the ring
at all, much less battling it out against the Left, were it not for
the continued support and generosity of you, our members.
We are able to make a difference, because you are making a
difference. And for that we are grateful, every day.
THOMAS A. SAUNDERS III
Chairman
JIM DEMINT
President & CEO
DAVID
HILLS
NEW TO BOOKSHELVES
“2014 Index
of Economic
Freedom”
Terry Miller,
Anthony B. Kim
and Kim R.
Holmes, eds
“2014 Index of Culture and
Opportunity: The Social
and Economic Trends that
Shape America”
Jennifer A. Marshall and
Rea S. Hederman, Jr., eds.
“Falling in Love with
America Again”
Jim DeMint
“An Inquiry into the
Nature and Causes of
the Wealth of States:
How Taxes, Energy, and
Worker Freedom Change
Everything”
Arthur B. Laffer, Stephen
Moore, Rex A. Sinquefield and
Travis H. Brown
“Obama’s Enforcer:
Eric Holder’s Justice
Department”
Hans von Spakovsky and
John Fund
“A Race for the
Future: How
Conservatives
Can Break
the Liberal
Monopoly
on Hispanic
Americans”
Mike Gonzalez
“Rich States, Poor States”
Arthur B. Laffer, Stephen
Moore and Jonathan Williams
“What is Marriage?
Man and Woman:
A Defense”
Ryan T. Anderson,
Robert P. George and
Sherif Girgis
7
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Heritage unveiled the 2014 “Index of Economic Freedom” at a Jan. 14 press conference in Hong Kong. Here, Index Research Manager
Analyst Anthony Kim fields a reporter’s question as Amb. Terry Miller, Director of Heritage’s Center for Trade and Economics, looks on.
PROTECTING ECONOMIC FREEDOM
R
igorous economic research has been a mainstay at
Heritage since our founding. In 2014, we brought our
three economic research centers together under one
roof—the Institute for Economic Freedom and Opportunity.
Under the leadership of Vice President Jack Spencer and
working in concert with our other Institutes, our Commu-
nications Team and Heritage Action, IEFO experts sparked
policy advances at home and abroad.
PROMOTING ECONOMIC FREEDOM
AT HOME AND ABROAD
Heritage’s Center for Trade and Economics (CTE) analyzes
global economic developments and how free markets, the
rule of law, and democratic institutions can foster economic
growth around the world.
For 20 years, our annual “Index of Economic Freedom” has
tracked the ebb and flow of economic freedom in more than
180 nations. The 2014 Index contained welcome news: after a
long, dry spell, economic freedom was once again on the rise,
with the average score hitting an all-time high.
Not all the news was good, however. Economic freedom in the
U.S.declinedfortheseventhstraightyear,droppingusfromthe
ranksoftheworld’s10mostfreeeconomies.Theculpritbehind
the fall: continued expansion of government spending and reg-
ulation—especially in the areas of health care and finance.
While Heritage worked to restore economic freedom at
home, CTE analysts, working under the direction of Ambas-
sador Terry Miller, focused on promoting it globally. Follow-
ing dual Index launch events (in Washington, D.C., and Hong
Kong), Miller and other Heritage experts travelled to more
than 20 countries, giving lectures and seminars identifying
reforms that could bring the benefits of economic freedom to
their people.
Heritage scholars also published A Global Agenda for Eco-
nomic Freedom—a blueprint for U.S. policymakers seeking
a practical and effective global strategy for promoting eco-
nomic freedom around the world.
In November, Miller and Bryan Riley, our Jay Van Andel
Senior Trade Policy Analyst, published Why Trade Mat-
ters and How to Unleash It. The data-rich Special Report
demonstrates that countries where free trade flourishes
enjoy higher per capita incomes, lower hunger rates, and
cleaner environments. The moral: Trade freedom begets
human well-being.
At home, the CTE team trained its sights on the Merchant
Marine Act of 1920, aka the Jones Act. This supposedly
“untouchable” protectionist policy bars foreign-built, for-
eign-flagged ships from carrying goods between U.S. ports.
The restriction costs U.S. consumers dearly and sometimes
delays timely delivery of life-saving supplies.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
8
CTE researchers documented the nature and extent of
the problem and built a broad coalition of business execu-
tives, academics and defense experts to pursue reform. At
Heritage’s Dec. 5 seminar, Jones Act vs. Free Markets, Sen.
John McCain, R-Ariz., vowed to repeal the act. On Jan. 13,
2015, he filed an amendment to do exactly that.
KEEPING GOVERNMENT
COST ESTIMATES “REAL”
Over the years, researchers in our Center for Data Analy-
sis (CDA) have developed cutting-edge computer models
that predict how policy proposals will affect job growth,
investment, wages, federal revenues, and more. For decades,
Heritage has been at the cutting edge of “dynamic” economic
modeling—modeling that takes proper account of the econo-
my’sresponsestochangesingovernmenttaxation,regulation,
and spending. Lawmakers have come to rely on CDA analyses
to give a clearer picture of a bill’s real-world economic effects
than can be obtained via the less sophisticated analytic mod-
els used by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO).
Since 1996, Heritage has urged Congress to embrace dynamic
scoring institutionally. On Jan. 6, 2015, it did. The new
House of Representatives updated House rules to require
both the CBO and the Joint Committee on Taxation to use
dynamic scoring when estimating the economic effects of
legislative proposals.
CDA analysts used their newest computer model—the
Heritage Energy Model—to great effect when the Adminis-
tration rolled out its 2014 Climate Action Plan and, later, its
Clean Power Plan.
Both schemes claimed to offer a cost-effective way to reduce
carbon dioxide emissions. Those claims were based on EPA
estimates of the “social cost of carbon” (SCC) as determined
by the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s National
Energy Modeling System.
As fate would have it, Drs. Kevin Dayaratna and David Kreut-
zer had derived the Heritage model from that very system, so
theywereableto“reverseengineer”theEPAanalysestodeter-
mine how the agency had reached its “social cost” estimates.
What they found were outdated and unrealistic assumptions
that caused the model to inflate the proposal’s economic ben-
efits and minimize its costs. Their findings forced the EPA to
“refine” (i.e., correct) its SCC estimate—another example of
how Heritage research helps keep regulators honest.
In addition to debunking the SCC estimates, the CDA did a
full analysis of how the EPA’s proposed cap on carbon dioxide
Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., keynoted the Washington, D.C., launch
event for the 2014 “Index of Economic Freedom,” Jan. 14 in
Allison Auditorium.
CENTER FOR TRADE AND
ECONOMICS: 5 KEY PAPERS
U.S. Should Support Tunisia’s Democratic Progress with
Concrete Action
Anthony Kim, Charlotte Florance, and James Phillips,
Feb. 20, 2014
Using the Index of Economic Freedom:
A Practical Guide
Ryan Olson, April 4, 2014
Sink the Jones Act: Restoring America’s Competitive
Advantage in Maritime-Related Industries
Brian Slattery, Bryan Riley, and Nicolas Loris, May 22, 2014
Russia’s Avoidable Economic Decline
Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., Ivan Benovic, and James Roberts,
Sept. 17, 2014
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership
(TTIP): Economic Benefits and Potential Risks
Theodore Bromund, Ph.D., Luke Coffey, and Bryan Riley,
Sept. 17, 2014
9
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
emissionsfrompowerplantswouldaffecttheeconomy.Fewer
jobs, higher electricity price, lower personal disposable
income—our researchers presented the disturbing economic
news for each state and by individual congressional districts
as well. State officials and activist groups have found this spe-
cific information invaluable in fighting these proposals.
CDA research influenced county-level policy as well. Just
before Labor Day, CDA Senior Analyst of Labor Policy James
Sherk issued a report proposing that, in the absence of a state
right-to-work law, cities and counties could pass their own.
By year’s end, three counties in Kentucky had approved local
“workplace freedom” measures.
PUSHING BACK AGAINST
OVER-REGULATION
The Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Studies covers a
broad range of economic issues, from government spending
and taxes to monetary policy, from energy and environment
to agriculture and transportation. Roe scholars spent much
of 2014 fending off regulators’ attempts to extend their reach
ever wider and deeper.
Since 2007, courts have twice rejected the Federal Commu-
nications Commission’s efforts to regulate the internet. In
2014, the FCC tried again, proposing even more drastic “net
neutrality” regulations. In November, the President lent his
support to the effort. Shortly thereafter, AT&T announced it
would “pause” new investments in fiber optic lines. The dead
hand of regulation had struck again.
Net-neutrality advocates say government needs to keep Inter-
net service providers from indulging in a host of evils, from
slowing broadband speeds to suppressing political speech.
But James Gattuso, Heritage’s Senior Research Fellow in Reg-
ulatory Policy, dismisses such scenarios as “a rather unlikely
parade of horribles.”
In two Backgrounders, he demonstrated that most practices
outlawed under net neutrality actually benefit consumers
and help spur innovation and competition in the marketplace.
In Gattuso’s research, defenders of Internet freedom will find
the intellectual ammunition needed to fight the FCC. Again.
In October, Roe’s Research Fellow in Agricultural Pol-
icy, Daren Bakst, blew the whistle on an “interpretive rule”
LEFT: At the President’s Club meeting, Romina Boccia, Heritage’s Grover M. Hermann Research Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs,
outlines our plan to balance the federal budget. RIGHT: Heritage’s Research Fellow in Labor Economics, James Sherk, works on testimo-
ny regarding IRS abuses. He testified before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on Aug. 6.
CENTER FOR DATA ANALYSIS:
5 KEY PAPERS
Unfounded FUND: Yet Another EPA Model Not Ready
for the Big Game
Kevin D. Dayaratna, Ph.D. and David Kreutzer, Ph.D., April 22, 2014
Chairman Camp’s Tax Reform Plan a Milestone for
Dynamic Analysis
Rea Hederman, Rachel Greszler, and John Ligon, Feb. 28, 2014
Europe’s Fiscal Crisis Revealed: An In-Depth Analysis
of Spending, Austerity, and Growth
Alberto Alesina, Ph.D., Romina Boccia, Ryan Bourne, Salim Furth,
Ph.D., David Howden, Ph.D., Filip Jolevski, Miguel Marin, Matthew
Melchiorre, Derrick Morgan, Dalibor Roháč, Veronique de Rugy,
Ph.D., and Malin Sahlén, June 6, 2014
Higher Fast-Food Wages: Higher Fast-Food Prices
James Sherk, Sept. 4, 2014
New Obamacare Enrollment Data: Employer-Based
Coverage Declines
Edmund F. Haislmaier and Drew Gonshorowski, July 28, 2014
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
10
proposal from the EPA. The agency claimed it would free
farmers from some Clean Water Act requirements. But
Bakst’s analysis—Another EPA and Army Corps Power Grab—
showed it would actually do the opposite, imposing new
requirements on them. His research helped force EPA to
withdraw its proposal.
In 2013, Heritage’s Nicolas Loris and Jack Spencer teamed
with analysts from the Center for American Progress and the
Information Technology & Innovation Foundation to pro-
duce a report calling for fundamental reform in Department
of Energy spending on R&D and commercialization projects
and for opening national labs resources to the private sector.
In 2014, both chambers of Congress introduced legislation to
implement many of the report’s recommendations. In addi-
tion to passing the bill, the House formed a commission on
lab reform and then asked Loris to present the paper to the
commissioners.
Loris, Roe’s Herbert and Joyce Morgan Fellow, also built the
case for energy exports. Crude oil exports have been prohib-
ited since the Cold War era, and liquefied natural gas (LNG)
exports are severely restricted. These barriers to free trade
hurt Americans and retard economic growth. Loris penned
two impactful papers on energy exports and worked with
Heritage Action on the Hill to educate lawmakers on the
issue. These efforts moved then-Rep. (now Sen.) Cory Gard-
ner,R-Colo.,tointroduceanLNGexportbillwhichpassedthe
House and now has excellent prospects in the 2015 Senate.
A HERITAGE HOMECOMING: STEVEN MOORE RETURNS
Steven Moore, our Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Budget-
ary Affairs in the mid-1980s, “came home” to Heritage on
Jan. 21. Just 10 days later, the former economics columnist
for The Wall Street Journal was in Richmond, addressing
35 members of Congress at Heritage’s annual Conserva-
tive Members Retreat. He outlined seven initiatives to get
America working and the economy growing.
Within two months, he had crisscrossed the country,
speaking before college groups, lawmakers, and business
associations in 11 states. Along the way, he logged more
than 100 radio and television appearances and penned
more than 50 commentaries for publications such as
The Wall Street Journal, Investor’s Business Daily,
The Chicago Tribune, and National Review.
He also released two books: “An Inquiry into the Nature
and Causes of the Wealth of States” and the 2014 edition
of “Rich States, Poor States.” The former, co-authored
with economist Arthur Laffer, demonstrates that states
with low tax rates, less regulation, less debt, and work-
place freedom laws perform far better economically than
others. It became a New York Times best-seller.
The whirlwind of activity brought results at the state level
as well as in D.C. When Missouri passed the largest tax cut
in that state’s history, House Speaker Tim Jones credited
“the work of Moore and Laffer.” And in Tennessee, Moore’s
arguments against a UAW organizing drive at the Chatta-
nooga VW plant led to what The Washington Post called a
“shocking” defeat and “a huge blow” to the union.
Throughout 2014, Moore engaged The New York Times’
Paul Krugman in a very public debate over why some
states out-perform others economically. That battle will
continue—and not just in the nation’s newspaper pages.
Krugman has agreed to debate Moore live at the 2015
Freedom Fest in Las Vegas.
ROE INSTITUTE: 5 KEY PAPERS
The Fed at 100: A Primer on Monetary Policy
Norbert Michel, Ph.D., Jan. 29, 2014
10 Guiding Principles for Agriculture Policy:
A Free Market Vision
Daren Bakst, May 5, 2014
Energy Exports Promote Prosperity and Bolster
National Security
Nicolas Loris, July 23, 2014
Business Inversions: Tax Reform Is the Only Way
to Curb Them
Curtis Dubay, Sept. 4, 2014
Eliminating Waste and Controlling Government Spending
Romina Boccia, Oct. 17, 2014
11
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
PRESERVING CIVIL SOCIETY
E
xpanding opportunity in America is not just a question
of jobs and economic climate. It also has a lot to do with
the state of marriage and the family, and the vibrancy
of community life.
That’s the message of Heritage’s “Index of Culture and Oppor-
tunity,” which debuted in 2014. The Index monitors and ana-
lyzes 31 separate cultural and economic indicators over the
last 10 years. It tracks everything from the marriage rate and
religious attendance to welfare dependence and educational
opportunities. Why?
“Social and economic trends constantly shape and re-shape
America,” explains Jennifer Marshall, Index co-editor and
VicePresidentforHeritage’sInstituteforFamily,Community
and Opportunity. “And Americans’ opportunity to flourish is
determined, in large measure, by the social and economic fac-
tors measured in the Index.”
The Index revealed a “good news/bad news” state of affairs.
For example, while the abortion rate and violent crime rate
have decreased, the marriage rate has fallen and unwed child-
bearing continues to rise. And while more K-12 students are
benefitting from school choice programs, the student loan
burden continues to grow for college graduates.
DEVOS CENTER FOR RELIGION
AND CIVIL SOCIETY
The purpose of the Index is to help policymakers and com-
munity leaders focus on domestic issues most critical to the
future of our nation. The DeVos Center for Religion and Civil
Society promoted it heavily among both audiences, brief-
ing the National Religious Broadcasters, the Black Conser-
vative Summit, Heritage Congressional Fellows, and other
opinion leaders.
DeVos scholars, as usual, were instrumental in helping shape
the debate on several of the year’s most important social
issues. Marshall and Policy Analyst Sarah Torre coordinated
messaging for a coalition of groups supporting the religious
liberty of the Green and Hahn families, whose Christian faith
led them to challenge the Obamacare mandate that they pro-
vide coverage of abortion-inducing drugs. As they pled their
cases before the Supreme Court in March, Torre addressed
a rally just outside. The Court’s decision upholding religious
liberty in both cases—Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood
Specialties—gave the families and the conservative move-
ment a substantial victory.
Throughout the year, DeVos Center scholars made the case
for marriage. Dr. Ryan T. Anderson spoke at numerous col-
lege and law school campuses in support of the proposition
that marriage should continue to be recognized in law as
the union of one man and one woman. A video of his appear-
ance at Stanford University’s Anscombe Society went viral,
logging over 370,000 views on the Internet. Anderson also
made the case in print and broadcast media. Highlights
included appearances on “Stossel” and “The Independents,”
on FOX Business, and a Washington Post op-ed co-authored
with Heritage’s Edwin Meese III. Anderson’s essay Freedom
to Marry & Dissent, Rightly Understood, co-written with
Heritage President Jim DeMint
welcomes scores of researchers,
practitioners, policy leaders and
communicators to Heritage’s 4th
Annual Antipoverty Forum.
The event was held Nov. 20 at the
historic Reserve Officers
Association in Washington, D.C.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
12
Princeton’s Robert P. George, was RealClearPolicy.com’s
most read article of 2014.
As intolerant forces increasingly tried to silence those defend-
ing traditional marriage, Marshall hosted regular strategy
meetingsofleadingreligiouslibertyandmarriagegroups.She
also spoke at June’s national March for Marriage in front of
the Capitol.
On Jan. 8, Senior Research Fellow Robert Rector commem-
orated the 50th Anniversary of the War on Poverty by doc-
umenting its abject failure in a Wall Street Journal column.
Despite nearly $22 trillion in government spending, the pov-
erty rate remains essentially unchanged. Rather than fulfill
its promise to help more Americans achieve self-sufficiency,
dependency on government has instead sky-rocketed.
In research papers, commentaries, and briefings with Hill
staff, Rector and his colleague, Rachel Sheffield, continued to
stressmarriageas acriticalantidotetopoverty.Sen.TimScott,
R-S.C., echoed that theme at Heritage’s 4th Annual Antipov-
erty Forum. His keynote speech called on policy-makers to
focus on reforms that will dismantle the welfare state’s disin-
centives to marry, work, and get an education.
Lindsey Burke, Heritage’s Will Skillman Fellow in Educa-
tion, spearheaded a national movement to help states free
themselves from Common Core. The D.C.-driven system of
national standards and tests disempowers local educators
and the parents of students, while imposing questionable
educational materials on students. Burke outlined the pitfalls
of this approach at statewide policy conferences as well as in
newspaper columns and radio and TV interviews.
If Washington didn’t get the message, the American people
did. From South Carolina to Georgia to Wyoming, voters con-
sistently sided with candidates who rejected Common Core.
Politico calledDianeDouglas’victoryinArizona’sstatesuperin-
tendentrace“ahugewinfortheanti-CommonCoremovement.”
Burke also made a powerful case against the President’s $1
trillion initiative to establish universal pre-kindergarten. Her
review of research showed that, while incredibly costly, pre-K
instruction does little or nothing to improve long-term edu-
cational achievement. Moreover, she noted, many parents
want to stay home with their kids during those early, most
formative years.
When Burke wasn’t pushing back against Common Core and
universal pre-K, she was advancing a key Heritage education
At the Antipoverty Forum, Lindsey Burke, Heritage’s Will
Skillman Fellow in Education, talks about the importance of
education in economic mobility.
DEVOS CENTER: 5 KEY PAPERS
Obamacare’s Many Loopholes: Forcing Individuals and
Taxpayers to Fund Elective Abortion Coverage
Sarah Torre, Jan. 13, 2014
New Preschool Spending an Unnecessary Burden on
American Taxpayers
Lindsey Burke and Rachel Sheffield, March 7, 2014
Protecting Religious Liberty in the State Marriage
Debate
Ryan T. Anderson, Ph.D., and Leslie Ford, April 10, 2014
Reauthorizing the Higher Education Act: Toward Policies
that Increase Access and Lower Costs
Lindsey Burke, Aug. 19, 2014
How the ABLE Act Would Expand the Welfare State
Robert Rector, and Romina Boccia, Nov. 10, 2014
13
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
recommendation: Education Savings Accounts. She travelled
to Minnesota, Oklahoma, Utah, and Virginia to promote the
concept and produced a video series in which Arizona fam-
ilies describe how they have used the accounts to improve
their children’s educational opportunities.
CENTER FOR HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
On Feb. 13, Heritage’s Dr. Robert Moffit travelled to the Med-
ical College of Wisconsin to debate the future of Medicare
with New Republic Senior Editor Jonathan Cohn and Dr.
Cyril Hetzsko. Moffit and his debate teammate, Dr. Richard
Armstrong,arguedthatthefederalhealthinsuranceprogram
would have to be converted into a defined-contribution plan
to secure firm fiscal footing. It ended with the student audi-
ence voting Moffit and Armstrong the hands-down winners.
Ten months later, Edmund Haislmaier, Moffit’s colleague in
our Center for Health Policy Studies (CHPS), was the fea-
tured speaker at the Yale Political Union’s debate entitled
“America Needs a Single-Payer Health Care System.” Taking
on all comers, Haislmaier rebutted the proposition, pro-
claiming the virtues of a free-market, consumer-driven sys-
tem. Again, Heritage’s position carried the day.
Indeed, CHPS experts won critical policy arguments through-
out the year—in state capitals as well as in Washington, D.C.
Heritage relentlessly pressed the case for fiscal responsibil-
ity in health care, and Congress backed off enacting a pro-
posed “fix” for Medicare’s inadequate reimbursement rates
for doctors that would have added to the nation’s deficits.
While Heritage argued for a permanent fix, our experts also
TOP: Ryan Anderson, our William E. Simon Fellow in Religion
and a Free Society, hosts a March 14 panel discussion of “Derelic-
tion of Duty: State Attorneys General Failing to Defend Marriage
Laws in Court.” BOTTOM: Nina Owcharenko, Preston A. Wells,
Jr., Fellow and Director of our Center for Health Policy Studies
CENTER FOR HEALTH POLICY
STUDIES: 5 KEY PAPERS
Impact of the Affordable Care Act on the Health Care
Workforce
Amy Anderson, DNP, RN, CNE, March 18, 2014
Medicare Payment System: Why Congress Should
Delay the ICD-10 Coding System
Robert Moffit, Ph.D., March 31, 2014
Obamacare’s Impact on Doctors: An Update
Alyene Senger, Aug. 23, 2014
Obamacare’s Enrollment Increase: Mainly Due to
Medicaid Expansion
Edmund F. Haislmaier and Drew Gonshorowski, Oct. 22, 2014
A Fresh Start to Health Care Reform
Edmund F. Haislmaier Robert E. Moffit, Ph.D., Nina Owcharenko,
and Alyene Senger, Oct. 30, 2014
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
14
insisted that lawmakers do it in a way that protects taxpay-
ersandincorporatesmuch-neededstructuralreformstothe
Medicare program.
After the elections, lawmakers tried to revive the “doc fix”
AND increase funding for the Children’s Health Insurance
Program. The two changes would have cost taxpayers hun-
dreds of billions of dollars. Moffit and CHPS Director Nina
Owcharenko made the policy case against ramrodding
these changes through the Lame Duck session. Meanwhile,
Heritage Action worked Hill offices, stressing the strategic
view that passage now would strip lawmakers of leverage
needed to wrest more far-ranging reforms from the White
House in 2015. Congress wound up leaving both proposals
off the year-end spending bill.
HeritagewasalsoinstrumentalinstoppingObamacare-sanc-
tioned bailouts of insurance companies. The “risk corri-
dor” program lets insurers collect federal subsidies if they
lose too much on policies sold through the Obamacare
exchanges. In 2014, the Administration announced that,
despite an earlier pledge to limit subsidy expenditures, it
was now resolved to pay insurers whatever they needed to
cover big losses.
Heritage sounded the alarm, stressing that this could put
taxpayers on the hook. Haislmaier testified twice before
Congressional committees and penned a nationally syn-
dicated column educating the public about the problem.
Within weeks, Congress pulled the plug on this ripe-for-
abuse bailout program.
Our researchers produced a series of reports on the real-
world effects of Obamacare, providing a useful corrective
to the Administration’s overblown claims of success. And
in “Fresh Start for Health Care Reform,” four CHPS schol-
ars laid out the key policy reforms needed to transition to a
patient-centered, market-based health system.
Meanwhile, CHPS was busy helping states fight back against
Obamacare. For example, when Virginia’s new governor
decided to make his mark by expanding Medicaid, Owchar-
enkowasoneoftheexpertscalledbytheGeneralAssembly’s
Medicaid Task Force to discuss the consequences of expan-
sion. The Legislature heeded the warnings and rejected
the proposal.
B. KENNETH SIMON CENTER FOR
PRINCIPLES AND POLITICS
The Simon Center increases public understanding of
America’s founding principles. In 2014, the Center
released the second edition of our 2005 landmark
publication: “The Heritage Guide to the Constitution,”
a line-by-line originalist analysis of that great document.
The new edition takes
into account a decade of
Supreme Court decisions
and legal scholarship
on such issues as gun
rights, religious freedom,
campaign finance, civil
rights and health care
reform. The first edition has
sold over 50,000 copies,
and the online edition has
been visited more than 1.3
million times since it was
first posted in 2012.
Under the leadership of Director David Azerrad, the
Center brought on board Dr. Carson Holloway, an
Associate Professor of Political Science at the University
of Nebraska, as the Center’s inaugural Visiting Fellow in
American Political Thought.
The Center also added two new essays to its popular
“First Principles” series: The Birth of Democracy: What
Progressivism Did to the States, by R.J. Pestritto and
Taylor Kempema of Hillsdale College, and Martin Luther
King, Jr., and the American Dream by University of
Wisconsin Professor Peter C. Myers.
Other major publications included:
•	“The Second Amendment and the Inalienable
Right to Self-Defense,” by Nelson Lund
(George Mason University Law School)
•	“John Rawls: Theorist of Modern Liberalism,”
by Jerome Foss (St. Vincent College)
•	“The Conservative Mind of Russell Kirk” by
Lee Edwards, Heritage’s Distinguished Fellow
of Conservative Thought.
The Center also sponsored a four-part program:
“Lessons for Conservatives: From Goldwater to the
Tea Party.” Syndicated columnist George Will
delivered the kick-off lecture. Other featured
speakers included William Kristol, Jonah Goldberg,
Stephen F. Hayes, and Newt Gingrich. The series
drew more than 500 people to Allison Auditorium
and more than 13,000 viewers online.
15
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
DEFENDING FREEDOM
AT HOME AND ABROAD
O
n May 28, President Obama gave the graduating
class at West Point a triumphal speech on foreign
and defense policy. The Commander in Chief sug-
gested that the biggest challenge facing U.S. armed forces in
the future would be… climate change.
Elsewhere in 2014: Russia annexed Crimea and invaded
Ukraine; a flood of illegal immigrants—including huge num-
bers of unaccompanied children—swamped our southern
border; ISIS terrorists seized control over much of Iraq, and
China moved to restrict open elections in Hong Kong.
All of these unfortunate developments had one thing in com-
mon: they had all been predicted by Heritage’s Kathryn and
Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for National Security and For-
eign Policy. “It’s not that our analysts have a crystal ball,” says
Dr. James Jay Carafano, Vice President for the Davis Insti-
tute. “It’s that they see the world clearly, and they know how
our friends and enemies are most likely to react to policy deci-
sions made in Washington, D.C.”
And throughout the year, analysts in Davis’ three major pol-
icy research centers dedicated their attention to identifying
emerging threats to American interests around the globe—as
well as emerging opportunities—and devising policy rec-
ommendations best calculated to keep America secure, free,
and prosperous.
PRESERVING AMERICAN SOVEREIGNTY
Advocates of the “one-world” system view national sover-
eignty as an archaic and dangerous concept. But the schol-
ars in our Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom view sov-
ereignty as an essential bulwark of freedom—the right that
safeguards all other rights from the tyranny of a grasping
internationalist majority.
“Sovereignty, once relinquished, can seldom be regained,” says
Dr. Nile Gardiner, Director of the Thatcher Center. “That’s
why we must defend it against all incursions by the interna-
tionalist set.”
Three sovereignty-threatening treaties, already signed by the
Administration, were candidates for Senate consent to ratifi-
cation in 2014. And two Thatcher Center scholars provided
the analyses and arguments to keep them bottled up.
A packed house—and a sea of TV cameras—await Texas Gov. Rick Perry’s speech on “The Border Crisis and the New Politics
of Immigration” Aug. 21 in Allison Auditorium.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
16
During Q&A with reporters following his immigration speech,
Gov. Perry calls for a more robust U.S. military response in Iraq
to combat the Islamist State.
Dr. Ted R. Bromund led the charge against ratification of
the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT) which, if applied seriously,
would gravely constrain U.S. foreign policy options. For
example, it could be used to block arms sales to allies such
as Israel and Taiwan or to bar us from supplying weap-
ons to Kurdish groups fighting ISIS. Bromund’s analysis
fueled opposition to the treaty, discouraging the Adminis-
tration from even submitting it to the Senate. To head off
undesirable “executive action,” Congress attached a rider
to the omnibus appropriations bill barring the Adminis-
tration from spending any money to implement the ATT
before ratification.
Two other ill-advised treaties—the UN Convention on the
Rights of the Child and the UN Convention on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities—fared no better. Despite their “feel-
good” titles, neither would have done anything to improve the
lot of America’s young or disabled, yet both would have under-
mined U.S. sovereignty. Bromund made the case against the
former, while Steven Groves, Heritage’s Bernard and Barbara
Lomas Senior Research Fellow, explained the pitfalls and
empty promises of the latter.
Heritage affected UN affairs
in a material way, as well. To
fight widespread graft and
corruption there, Brett Schae-
fer, Heritage’s Jay Kingman
Fellow in International Reg-
ulatory Affairs, urged that the
U.S. withhold 15 percent of its
UN contributions until the
Secretary of State could cer-
tify that the organization has
implemented a specified set of
effective whistleblower pro-
tections. The omnibus appro-
priations bill turned that rec-
ommendation into law.
Schaefer also led the Heri-
tage team that fought to keep
the internet free, opposing
efforts to turn stewardship of
the Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Num-
bers (ICANN) over to the UN
or a committee under the con-
trol of foreign governments. Instead, Heritage recommended
a set of standards for ICANN governance that would assure
this global communications commons could not fall under
the thumb of repression.
THATCHER CENTER: 5 KEY PAPERS
Self-Determination and National Security: Why the U.S.
Should Back British Sovereignty over Gibraltar
Luke Coffey, Feb. 13, 2014
Beyond the Crimea Crisis: Comprehensive Next Steps in
U.S.–Russian Relations
Nile Gardiner, Ph.D., Jack Spencer, Luke Coffey, and
Nicolas Loris, March 25, 2014
Protecting Internet Freedom and American Interests:
Required Reforms and Standards for ICANN Transition
Paul Rosenzweig, Brett D. Schaefer, James L. Gattuso, and
David Inserra, June 16, 2014
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership
(TTIP): The Geopolitical Reality
Theodore R. Bromund, Ph.D., Nile Gardiner, Ph.D., and
Luke Coffey, Sept. 17, 2014
Freedom from the EU: Why Britain and the U.S. Should
Pursue a U.S.–U.K. Free Trade Area
Theodore R. Bromund, Ph.D. and Nile Gardiner, Ph.D.,
Sept. 26, 2014
17
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon,
R- Calif., calls for increased investment in the U.S. military,
May 6 in Allison Auditorium.
PIVOTING TO ASIA WITH A PURPOSE
Several research recommendations from our Asian Stud-
ies Center became the law of the land in 2014. The National
Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) limited security assis-
tance for the Burmese military until the Secretary of State
certifies that the regime in Rangoon has taken substantive
steps toward democratization. Among the reforms needed for
certification are: ending military ties to North Korea; ceas-
ing attacks on ethnic minority groups, and adopting a formal
military code of conduct. Heritage recommended these con-
ditions because the Administration had signaled its intent to
pursue rapprochement with the post-junta government, even
in the absence of concrete reforms.
The omnibus appropriations bill featured another Heritage
recommendation: restrictions on U.S.-China space cooperation.
HeritagehaslongwarnedofthedangersofcooperatingwithBei-
jing on manned space flight, and the bill bars that. It also blocks
the Administration from entering a “Space Code of Conduct”
agreement which would restrict American activity in space. U.S.
defense is far more dependent on space-based assets such as
GPS systems and spy satellites. National security demands that
webeabletooperatefreelyintheSpace Commons.
On July 28, the House passed the North Korea Sanctions
Enforcement Act. Heritage had long urged stiffening sanc-
tions to get Pyongyang to halt its nuclear weapons program
and return to the bargaining table. Bruce Klingner’s testi-
mony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee was key in
building bipartisan support for the bill. Rep. Gerald Connolly,
D-Va., commented afterwards:
It’s not often that I find myself in near total
agreement with The Heritage Foundation. But
I must say I found your testimony right on and
very helpful in terms of not just providing a
critique of U.S. policy but also providing a road
map of how we might make it more efficacious.
The Senate never took up the bill. But in December, Pres-
ident Obama implemented several of its provisions via
executive action—following the North Korean cyber-attack
on Sony.
PRESSING FOR A STRONG,
RATIONAL DEFENSE
In March, the Pentagon issued its Quadrennial Defense
Review (QDR). As with each of the three previous defense
reviews issued under President Obama, this one declared the
American military could do more with less. An independent
review of the QDR, commissioned by Congress, disagreed.
ASIAN STUDIES CENTER:
5 KEY PAPERS
Promoting True Democratic Transition in Cambodia
Walter Lohman and Olivia Enos, March 31, 2014
A National Strategy for the South China Sea
Steven Groves and Dean Cheng, April 24, 2014
Allies Should Confront Imminent North Korean
Nuclear Threat
Bruce Klingner, June 3, 2014
America’s Secret Weapon to Secure Taiwan’s Future:
Trade, William Wilson, Ph.D., Sept. 19, 2014
Pursuing a Freedom Agenda Amidst
Rising Global Islamism
Lisa Curtis, Charlotte Florance, Walter Lohman, and
James Phillips, Nov. 17, 2014
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
18
Left to right: South Korean Ambassador to the U.S. Ahn Ho-Young,
Board Member Abby Moffat, Diana Spencer, and President Jim
DeMint gather around a portrait of Heritage benefactor B.C. Lee
before entering Allison Auditorium for the 16th Annual B. C. Lee
Lecture on U.S. Policy in the Asia-Pacific.
ALLISON CENTER: 5 KEY PAPERS
Indeed, the bipartisan commission concluded that the Pres-
ident’s defense cuts were “self-defeating” and a “serious stra-
tegic misstep.”
To point Congress in the right direction, Heritage’s defense
team published The 2014 Defense Reform Handbook—a guide
to help lawmakers exercise their defense oversight responsi-
bilities most effectively.
Critical “hardware” recommendations from experts in our
Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign and National
Security Policy prevailed as well. The Allison Center’s argu-
ments establishing the need to maintain a minimum fleet of
11 aircraft carriers directly influenced the Defense Depart-
ment’s decision to keep USS George Washington in service.
And the NDAA included Heritage’s recommendation to con-
tinue producing Tomahawk land-attack cruise missiles in Fis-
cal Year 2015.
The Allison Center provided strategic advice as well. As the
Administration struggled to identify an effective response to
the terrorism metastasizing in Iraq and Syria, Carafano and
Dr. Steven Bucci, Director of the Allison Center, published
The Way Forward in Iraq. Ultimately, the President adopted
several of their core recommendations—e.g., keep Kurdistan
in the fight, help the Iraqis take back their country. However,
it was still unclear whether he had gotten the message about
working to marginalize Iran’s influence rather than cut a
nuclear deal with Tehran.
Meanwhile, to help Congress sort out its constitutional duties
relating to the war in the Middle East, Senior Legal Fellow
Charles Stimson, published A Framework for an Authoriza-
tion for Use of Military Force against ISIS.
Astheyearended,theDavisteamwasputtingthefinaltouches
on “The Index of U.S. Military Strength.” This first-of-its-kind
resource will give policymakers—and the American people—
an annual, objective assessment of where national security is
improving and where it’s weakening.
When released in February 2015, the Index will provide
a consistent benchmark for measuring the adequacy and
appropriateness of our defensive posture. In addition to
defining America’s vital security interests and the severity
of threats to these interests, each year the Index will assess
the capability, capacity, and readiness of U.S. military forces.
The information and insights offered in “The Index of
U.S. Military Strength”—along with that contained in
our “Index of Economic Freedom” and “Index of Culture
and Opportunity”—will show policymakers what must
be done to increase freedom, prosperity, and security for
all Americans.
“Reclaiming America and expanding opportunity for all
begins with these three resources,” says Hertage President
Jim DeMint.
Cybersecurity Information Sharing: One Step Toward
U.S. Security, Prosperity, and Freedom in Cyberspace
David Inserra and Paul Rosenzweig, April 1, 2014
Ten-Step Checklist for Revitalizing America’s
Immigration System: How the Administration can
Fulfill Its Responsibilities
David Inserra, Nov. 3, 2014
The Future of Overseas Contingency Operations:
Due Diligence Required
Emil Maine and Diem Salmon, Nov. 4, 2014
Nuclear Negotiations with Iran: U.S. Must Avoid a
Rush to Failure
James Phillips, Nov. 22, 2014
National Security Priorities for the Next Secretary
of Defense
James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., Dakota Wood, James Phillips, and
Luke Coffey, Nov. 26, 2014
19
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
FIGHTING FOR ECONOMIC LIBERTIES
AND THE RULE OF LAW
T
he modern state has grown quite adept at restricting
economic competition. It protects established busi-
nesses by erecting wholly unnecessary barriers to entry
into the marketplace. That’s why some states allow only
licensed morticians to sell caskets. Or bar would-be entre-
preneurs from braiding hair without a cosmetology license—
something that requires hundreds of hours of classroom
instruction (virtually none dedicated to hair-braiding) and
thousands of dollars in “training fees.”
The Heritage Foundation believes the government’s job is
to assure that everyone has an opportunity to compete, not
to protect entrenched interests. And so our Edwin Meese
III Center for Legal and Judicial Studies opened a new area
of study in 2014: the preservation of economic liberties. The
goal is to fight government encroachment on fundamental
economic liberties, like the individual’s right to buy and use
private property as he sees fit… or the right of private par-
ties to advance their own self-interests without being sec-
ond-guessed by labor unions, legislatures, or courts.
In October, the Meese Center published Economic Liberty
and the Constitution. This Special Report reviewed a centu-
ry’s-worth of court rulings on the government’s authority to
regulate economic activity and identified the specific con-
stitutional rights at risk from excessive intervention. The
report’s authors—Georgetown Law Center Professor Randy
E. Barnett, George Mason University School of Law Professor
David E. Bernstein,  Institute for Justice Senior Attorney
Clark M. Neily III, and Meese Center Senior Legal Research
Fellow Paul J. Larkin—opened the public discussion with an
Oct. 7 seminar at Heritage. Heritage advanced the discussion
again in December with another seminar co-hosted with the
Buckeye Institute in Cincinnati, Ohio.
ENDING ABUSIVE SEIZURES
The Meese Center expanded its longstanding campaign
against over-criminalization to address Civil Asset Forfeiture
(CAF)—a policy that allows law enforcement officials to seize
property they believe may have been involved in criminal
activity. In practice, it means that government can take some-
one’s car, home, money, or valuables without even charging
that person with a crime.
Inaseriesoffeaturearticlessuchas“TheBiggestLittleRacket
in Nevada” and “This Man Had $75K Legally Stolen From
Him by a Sheriff’s Deputy,” Andrew Kloster and other Meese
Center scholars chronicled CAF abuses. They promoted the
District of Columbia’s newly enacted reforms as a model for
states to emulate and hosted numerous public lectures—in
the Texas State Capitol and elsewhere—to build support for
nationwide reform. Meanwhile, working through Heritage
Action for America, Meese Center experts offered guidance
to interested Senators and Representatives who have intro-
duced several proposals to curb CAF abuse.
Heritage Directors John Malcolm (Edwin Meese III Center for Legal and Judicial Studies) and Nina Owchareko (Center for Health
Policy Studies) brief staff on the implications of the Supreme Court ruling in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby. The Court affirmed that
family-owned corporations cannot be forced to buy insurance coverage for contraception if it violates the owners’ religious convictions.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
20
PUSHING BACK AGAINST
POLITICIZATION OF THE IRS
Heritage also played an active role in the ongoing Congres-
sional investigation into IRS targeting of conservative orga-
nizations. Senior Legal Fellow Hans von Spakovsky testified
twice before the House Committee on Oversight and Gov-
ernment Reform. He also maintained a high media profile—
broadcast as well as print—on the brazen politicization of
the tax agency.
In February, von Spakovsky hosted a public discussion of the
free-speech implications of proposed IRS regulations for
501(c)(4) organizations. The all-star panel, which included
The Wall Street Journal’s Kimberley Strassel and National
Review’s Eliana Johnson, drew a huge crowd. The follow-
ing month, von Spakovsky moderated another panel on the
topic at CPAC.
Meanwhile, David Addington, Heritage’s Group Vice Pres-
ident for Research, filed public comments for Heritage on
the proposed rules change, and von Spakovsky filed separate
comments in his personal capacity as a former Federal Elec-
tion Commissioner. Ultimately, the proposed change was
withdrawn. But Heritage remains on watch in case the IRS
tries to change the rules again.
APPELLATE ADVOCACY
The Meese Center held 21 moot court practice sessions and
convened 19 amicus curiae conferences for advocates prepar-
ing to argue their cases before the Supreme Court and other
federal appellate courts. This important, behind-the-scenes
activity helped the conservative movement gain several sig-
nificant victories in 2014. In nearly all of the Supreme Court
cases heard in the 2013/2014 term, the Justices upheld con-
stitutional freedoms – including religious liberty, freedom
of speech, and workers’ rights. The High Court also ruled
against unreasonable searches and seizures by government,
executive branch overreach, and the consideration of race in
college admissions.
TOP: Edwin Meese, our Ronald Reagan Distinguished Fellow
Emeritus, presents Judge Janice Rogers Brown with
“The Heritage Foundation Guide to the Constitution” following her
delivery of the Joseph Story Distinguished Lecture on Oct. 22.
BOTTOM: National Review columnist John Fund (left) and
Heritage Senior Legal Fellow Hans von Spakovsky field questions
in Lehrman Auditorium during a June 17 discussion of their book,
Obama’s Enforcer: Eric Holder’s Justice Department.”
MEESE CENTER: 5 KEY PAPERS
An Executive Unbound: The Obama Administration
Unilateral Actions
Elizabeth Slattery and Andrew Kloster, Feb. 12, 2014
The Extent of America’s Overcriminalization Problem
Paul Larkin, May 9, 2014
The IRS Tries to Silence Political Speech Again—
This Time with New Regulations,
Hans von Spakovsky, May 12, 2014
“Choking Off” Disfavored Businesses and Their Clients:
How Operation Choke Point
Undermines the Rule of Law and Harms the Economy,
Alden Abott, Aug. 4, 2014
President Obama’s Executive Action on
Immigration Sets a Dangerous Precedent,
John Malcolm, Dec. 5, 2014
21
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
CHUNG JU-YUNG
FELLOW FOR FOREIGN
POLICY STUDIES
Edwin J. Feulner, Ph.D.
ED GILBERTSON
AND SHERRY LINDBERG
GILBERTSON SENIOR
LEGAL FELLOW
John Malcolm
MARILYN AND FRED
GUARDABASSI
FELLOW IN MEDIA
AND PUBLIC POLICY
Kenneth McIntyre
GROVER M. HERMANN
FELLOW IN FEDERAL
BUDGETARY AFFAIRS
Romina Boccia
JAY KINGHAM SENIOR
FELLOW IN
INTERNATIONAL
REGULATORY AFFAIRS
Brett D. Schaefer
MARK A. KOLOKOTRONES
FELLOW IN ECONOMIC
FREEDOM
Ambassador Terry Miller
LAZOF FAMILY
FELLOW
Rea Hederman
BERNARD AND BARBARA
LOMAS SENIOR
RESEARCH FELLOW
Steven Groves
HERBERT AND JOYCE
MORGAN FELLOW
Nicolas Loris
E.W. RICHARDSON FELLOW
James Carafano, Ph.D.
PRESTON A. WELLS, JR.
FELLOW IN HEALTH
POLICY
Nina Owcharenko
THE JOHN, BARBARA,
AND VICTORIA RUMPEL
SENIOR LEGAL FELLOW
Alden Abbott
HENRY SALVATORI
VISITING FELLOW
Matthew Spalding, Ph.D.
WILLIAM E. SIMON
FELLOW
IN RELIGION
AND A FREE SOCIETY
Ryan Anderson, Ph.D.
WILL SKILLMAN
FELLOW IN EDUCATION
Lindsey Burke
MARGARET THATCHER
FELLOW
Luke Coffey
JAY VAN ANDEL SENIOR
ANALYST IN TRADE
POLICY
Bryan Riley
RICHARD F. ASTER FELLOW
Open
Heritage is home to scores of the nation’s top policy experts—and our
members help make sure it stays that way. To help Heritage continue
to attract and retain the brightest conservative minds in the business,
dedicated donors have funded the following fellowships.
IMPECCABLE SCHOLARSHIP
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
22
H
eritage gives a special designation to those scholars who have combined outstanding academic work with outstanding
service to our nation and the conservative movement. In addition to Lee Edwards, the leading historian of the
conservative movement, Heritage honors three others with the title of Distinguished Fellow.
DISTINGUISHED FELLOWS
LEE EDWARDS’ ANNUS MIRABILIS
By any measure, 2014 was a remarkable year for
Dr. Lee Edwards, Heritage’s Distinguished Fellow in
Conservative Thought.
As the Chairman of the
Victims of Communism
Memorial Foundation, he led
celebrations of two milestone
events: the 20th anniversary
of the Foundation itself, and
the 25th anniversary of the
fall of the Berlin Wall. The
Foundation, a nonprofit
educational and human rights
organization devoted to
commemorating the more
than 100 million victims of communism, also observed a
much sadder silver anniversary—that of the Tiananmen
Square Massacre.
Under Edwards’ leadership, the Foundation made major
strides in expanding the number of schools that have
adopted its curriculum explaining the history and legacy of
communism—the deadliest ideology in history. In light of
this and other achievements, the Hungarian government
awarded Edwards its Officer’s Cross of the Order of Merit.
A prolific writer, Edwards added two new titles—The
Conservative Mind of Russell Kirk and Barry M. Goldwater:
The Most Consequential Loser in American Politics—to our
B. Kenneth Simon Center’s series of essays on “Makers of
American Political Thought” As 2014 drew to a close, he
published The Great Communicator: The Political Rhetoric
of Ronald Reagan in Intercollegiate Review.
But when asked about his proudest achievement of the
year, Edwards mentions none of these writings nor the
honors bestowed on him. Instead, he cites A Brief His-
tory of the Cold War, a monograph he co-wrote with his
daughter, Elizabeth Edwards Spalding. “I think it’s very
special when a father and daughter can work together
on such a project and still love each other in the end,”
Edwards quips.
Edwards has been chronicling the advance of conservative
thought and the lives of its leaders for more than a half
century and shows no signs of slowing down. When asked
what keeps him so highly motivated, he replies simply, “I
know what history will say about the conservative moment
because I’m writing it.”
Elaine Chao—A former Secretary of
the U.S. Department of Labor, President
and CEO of United Way of America and
Peace Corps Director, Ms. Chao now
concentrates on trade, job creation, and
workforce issues.
Kim Holmes—A former Assistant
Secretary of State and member of
the Defense Policy Board, Dr. Holmes
oversaw Heritage’s defense and
foreign policy team for more than two
decades. He was a founding editor
of our annual “Index of Economic
Freedom”
and launched
our widely
respected home-
land security
program.
Edwin Meese III—A former U.S.
Attorney General and Counselor to
President Reagan, Mr. Meese is our
Ronald Reagan Distinguished Fellow
Emeritus. For more than a decade, he
chaired our Center for Legal and
Judicial Studies. He now concentrates
on coordinating
the work of con-
servative public
interest legal
groups.
23
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
TAKING OUR MESSAGE STRAIGHT
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
Having the best research and the best policy recommendations
only gets you so far. What’s true in the business world holds
true in the realm of politics and ideas:
Nothing happens until somebody sells something.
H
eritage’s Strategic Communications Team is charged
with “selling” both the broad conservative message
and our specific policy proposals to expand oppor-
tunity. And under the leadership of Group Vice President
Geoffrey Lysaught, they’ve been selling as never before.
That’s because they are reaching out to new audiences—com-
municating more and more with people who share many con-
servative values but don’t self-identify as conservative. These
are the folks who make up the “moveable middle”—a diverse
segment of the population that is poised for explosive growth
and will determine electoral outcomes for years to come.
Throughouttheyear,weworkedwithleadingmarketresearch
firms to learn about these key audiences and how to connect
with them so that they might more fully share in our vision of
making America a land of opportunity for all. Armed with the
insights of that research, we launched two new media proper-
ties that have met with phenomenal success.
THE AMERICAN PERCEPTIONS INITIATIVE
What is the best way to frame an issue for maximum appeal?
How can we move people who don’t view themselves as “con-
servative,” per se, to actively support conservative policies?
Enter, the American Perceptions Initiative, a permanent
research project using systematic audience studies, message
testing, and market research to help us understand precisely
who we must win over on a given policy initiative, how they
interpret arguments for and against our recommendations,
and how we can best gain their attention and trust.
Heritage launched an online news outlet, The Daily Signal on June 3. It quickly became a “must read “ for millions
seeking objective news reporting, insightful commentary, and informative graphics and videos.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
24
The nuts-and-bolts “messaging” research has proved illumi-
nating. For instance, we’ve learned that referring to “work-
placefreedom”lawsinsteadof“righttowork”lawsisfarmore
effective in moving people to support policies that limit coer-
cive union manipulation.
Our “issue-based” marketing studies have been revealing as
well. With regard to health care, for example, most voters
resent bureaucratic interference and limits on consumer/
patient choice. Unsurprisingly, their primary emotions
regarding Obamacare are concern, worry, and suspicion.
The more we present our health care solutions in a way that
responds directly to these emotions, the bigger the mandate
we will have to finally overturn Obamacare.
What we learn from American Perceptions can be invaluable
in any specific policy debate. But there’s a larger point, as well:
Heritage now has the marketing research tools that will help
us show that conservative policy solutions don’t just solve
problems; they offer a path to greater freedom, opportunity,
and human flourishing. We are connecting dots so that people
can act on them, whether or not they have previously consid-
ered themselves conservative. And that is a recipe for victory.
THE DAILY SIGNAL
For 40 years, Heritage’s Communications and Media Rela-
tions Team has done an outstanding job of placing Heritage
experts—and their ideas—in the mainstream media. That
didn’t change in 2014. Broadcast Services logged more than
4,000 radio and television interviews, while Editorial Ser-
vices placed more than 1,400 commentaries in major print
media outlets.
Despite this success, most mainstream media remain fully
marinated in a cultural and political narrative set by the Left.
America deserves better, and on June 3 Heritage gave Amer-
ica the media it deserves: fair, objective, fact-driven news;
research-based news analysis and commentary… leavened
with eye-catching, informative graphics and videos.
That’s when we retired our widely popular blog, The Foundry,
and debuted our own multimedia digital news outlet: The
Daily Signal. The launch itself was huge news within the
media world, generating stories in The Washington Post, Los
Angeles Times, Bloomberg Businessweek CNN, National Pub-
lic Radio and more.
After making news, The Daily Signal team spent the rest of the
year breaking news. Here are three stories that made a huge
splash—and a difference.
•	 Hillary Clinton confidants participated in a docu-
ment-scrubbing operation when the State Department
Accountability Review Board called for material pertain-
ing to the Sept. 11, 2012, terrorist attacks in Benghazi.
Longtime investigative reporter Sharyl Attkisson broke
TOP: It was a major scoop: Confidants of Hillary
Clinton scrubbed Benghazi-related documents
before handing them over to the Accountability
Review Board. And when former CBS investigative
reporter Sharyl Attkisson broke the news, she broke
it on The Daily Signal. The story went international
and sparked debate in Congress. BOTTOM: In July,
Daily Signal Reporter Josh Siegel traveled to the
Texas/Mexico border for a series of stories on how
the surge in illegal immigration was affecting local
communities and businesses.
25
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
the news just days before the House Select Committee on
Benghazi held its first hearing. The story received world-
wide media attention and sparked debate in Congress.
•	 Debo Adegbile was cruising toward Senate confirmation
as head of the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Divi-
sion—until News Director Ken McIntyre began report-
ing on Adegbile’s controversial legal defense of notori-
ous cop killer Mumia Abu-Jamal. The resulting public
outcry led the Senate to reject the appointment.
•	 Reporter Josh Siegel recounted the plight of a 2-year-old
Iraqi injured in an ISIS attack, prompting a global fund-
raising campaign to pay for the boy’s medical treatment.
The effort raised $2,250, enough to get Hasan Uday
Albayati to an Iranian hospital. He’s now living a normal
life with his family in Iraq.
Ground-breaking news coverage—combined with a commit-
ment to interactive storytelling using graphics and multime-
dia platforms—quickly set The Daily Signal apart from other
media brands and earned a huge audience. The Daily Signal
and The Foundry, combined, attracted more than 33.8 million
unique visitors in 2014—exceeding our goal by 50 percent and
more than quadrupling the reach from the previous year.
Part of this growth was fueled by Heritage’s success on Face-
book and Twitter—leading social networking sites that we use
to help rally Americans around a cause, foster discussion and
debate, or simply share information. Heritage now has more
than 1.7 million fans on Facebook and more than 470,000 fol-
lowers on Twitter.
No matter what the media platform—be it social media, The
Daily Signal, America Within or even mainstream outlets—
Heritage communications serve a strategic purpose. Our goal
is never simply to encourage or educate people, or make them
laugh, or get them discussing issues from an informed per-
spective. These are all good things. But our end game is always
to walk people down a path that plugs them in to different
aspects of Heritage, or Heritage Action, so that they can begin
to act on what they have learned—and work with us to change
Washington and expand opportunity for all.
AMERICA WITHIN
A key element of our new communications strategy is messag-
ing that gets to the heart of what it means to be an American.
And so, in July, we launched America Within (www.america
within.com) a digital, multimedia website.
Calculated to appeal primarily to millennials, the site enter-
tains with interactive features such as one-question polls,
videos, and articles that profile leaders in categories ranging
from “Style” and “Community” to “Politics.” While the site
entertains, it also promotes the very qualities and values
which undergird conservatism—such as the benefits of hard
work and self-sufficiency. These are principles embraced by
many Americans who don’t consider themselves “conserva-
tive.” The site’s content implicitly encourages readers to dis-
cover their own America within.
Certainly readers have discovered America Within. And they
like what they see—literally. After only six months, America
Within had notched more than 55,000 Facebook likes—that’s
well over twice the number attached to that excellent conser-
vative mainstay Commentary (24,000) and nearly triple the
number boasted by Millennial Magazine (19,000).
Meanwhile, readership grew exponentially. In its first six
months, America Within attracted nearly 250,000 read-
ers—126,000 of them in the last month alone.
America Within also launched in 2014. The multimedia website
promotes conservative qualities and values embraced by most
Americans—even those who don’t self-identify as conservatives.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
26
FOSTERING A NEW GENERATION OF
CONSERVATIVE LEADERS
“Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction.”
—Ronald Reagan
H
eritage has always worked to keep the flame of
Freedom and Opportunity burning bright for future
generations of Americans. We’ve made it our mis-
sion to nurture some of the nation’s most promising young
minds and give them the training and experience necessary
to assure principled, effective leadership that will hold our
country in good stead for the future.
The centerpiece of this effort is our Young Leaders Program
(YLP). Over the last 35 years, Heritage’s intern program has
helped more than 3,000 college “kids” grow up, get edu-
cated, and move into policy-shaping careers. Hundreds have
gone on to great things. Rich Lowry, for instance, interned
for us in 1986, working on our quarterly publication, Policy
Review. Today he edits National Review, the grandfather of
conservative journals.
In 1997, Harvard’s Tom Cotton interned at Heritage’s first
online media property, Townhall.com. Fifteen years later he
returned to Washington, as the newly elected Representative
of Arkansas’ 4th
District. In 2014, he became U.S. Senator
Tom Cotton.
YLP Director Heather Pfitzenmaier welcomed 189 interns in
2014. In addition to working alongside nationally respected
analysts and experts, they received a solid grounding in con-
servative principles and practices through a rigorous sched-
ule of briefings, “First Principles” luncheon lectures, policy
discussions, and instructor-led field trips to Mount Vernon,
the Capitol, National Archives, and the Pentagon.
At the end of each 10-week session, Heritage “graduates”
scores of young conservatives, ready to change the world.
But that’s only the beginning. We keep in touch with our
grads through our LinkedIn and Facebook sites—and some-
times even help them find work. In 2014, our Job Bank pro-
cessed more than 2,750 resumes and placed 125 conserva-
tives—38 of them former interns—in full-time jobs.
Of course, Heritage outreach to the next generation extends
far beyond our cadre of “young and bright and ardently right”
interns, as The New York Times described them. In 2014, our
External Relations team welcomed 85 groups of high school-
ers, college students, and young professionals to Heritage,
briefing all of them on Heritage policy recommendations and
the conservative principles undergirding them.
Heritage Interns head back to work after a tour of the Capitol.
TOP PHOTO: Necks crane as interns take in the view of the
Capitol Rotunda.
27
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Lousiana Gov. Bobby Jindal outlines “The Jobs Plan America
Needs” in a Sept. 14 lecture in Allison Auditorium.
The YLP also spread the message to colleges across the coun-
try, coordinating 107 campus events in 32 states. In addition
to promoting Heritage research and principles before large
student gatherings, YLP staff often met with individual fac-
ulty members and administrators to build relationships and
spoke with small groups of student leaders to encourage their
on-campus advocacy of conservatism.
CONTINUING EDUCATION ON THE HILL
Of course, no place stands in greater need of education than
Capitol Hill, where the average age of House office staff mem-
bers is barely 30. Heritage conducts three programs to serve
that student body.
The Heritage Congressional Fellows (HCF) Program is a year-
long, 24-installment lecture and discussion series hosted by
our B. Kenneth Simon Center for Principles and Politics and
our Policy Promotion Team. It gives junior congressional
staffers a firm grounding in First Principles and how they
apply to modern policy debates. In October, 59 legislative and
communications staffers completed the 2014 program, one of
the largest graduating classes in the program’s 13-year history.
For senior Hill staffers committed to advancing the conserva-
tive agenda, Heritage—in conjunction with Hillsdale College—
offers continuing education via the Madison Fellows Program.
Madison Fellows meet monthly for roundtable discussions
with national policy, political, and opinion leaders. Some 130
participants were enrolled in the program in 2014.
The Davis Institute runs a program to prepare selected young
professionals—both on the Hill and off—for future leadership
roles in the arenas of national security and foreign policy.
Running from March to September, the Marshall Fellows Pro-
gram incorporates lectures, educational field trips, and social
networking events. One highlight in 2014: a two-day simula-
tion of the Yalta Conference to practice international nego-
tiating skills. Marshall Fellows were matched with cadets at
Virginia Military Institute to form teams representing the UK,
the USSR, and the U.S. Participants said the experience was
“invaluable.” At year’s end, Davis graduated 15 newly minted
Marshall Fellows.
GROWING THE CONSERVATIVE
MOVEMENT
Still the “Mother Church of the Conservative Movement,”
Heritage brought together more than 500 conservative
leaders representing 262 organizations for our 37th
Annual
Resource Bank Meeting. For three days, attendees shared
strategies, best practices, and successes in “how-to” sessions
and participated in discussions stressing how to use the prin-
ciples of federalism and the virtues of competition to reform
health care, education, energy, agriculture, and welfare policy.
Highlights included the Robert H. Krieble Lecture by Louisi-
ana Gov. Bobby Jindal and a spirited closing address from Sen.
Ted Cruz, R-Texas.
PACKING THE LECTURE HALLS,
TIME AFTER TIME
The Lectures and Seminars Program, directed by John
Hilboldt, draws crowds—and newsmakers—to Heritage
four times a week, on average.
In 2014, 25 Members of the House spoke
at events in our Lehrman and Allison auditoria. More
than 13,000 people filled our lecture halls to hear
presentations from them and other luminaries such as Sen.
Ted Cruz, economist Arthur Laffer, and historian Victor
Davis Hanson.
The quality and relevance of our programming draws a
vast national and international audience as well. In 2014,
C-SPAN broadcast 26 of our programs
LIVE—giving Heritage more than 40 hours of national
air time. Another 15 presentations were taped
and aired later on C-SPAN.
Of course other national networks—including “the Big
Three,” FOX, and CNN—covered our events, as did many
international broadcasters. Indeed, foreign networks sent
cameras to record our events 69 times.
Truly, the world’s eyes are on Heritage.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
28
NAMED INTERNS: CLASS OF 2014
H. N. AND FRANCES C. BERGER
FOUNDATION INTERNS
Charlyce Bozzello,
College of the Holy Cross
Christine Cooke, Cornell College
Donald Gayou,
The George Washington University
Kevin Grout, University of Louisville
George Margulies, New York University
JOHN AND BARBARA BRUNING INTERN
Alyssa Hazelwood,
Michigan State University
MARY H. CAMPBELL FOUNDATION INTERN
Christopher Du Bois,
University of Texas, Dallas
RICHARD EARL CARTER MEESE
CENTER INTERN
Mr. Jason Miller, The Catholic
University of America, Columbus
School of Law
GENE D’AGOSTINO MEESE CENTER INTERN
Mr. James Mazars de Mazarin,
Georgetown University
BERNIECE AND WILLIAM GREWCOCK
INTERNS
Thomas Cooke, Cornell College
William Thetford,
Patrick Henry College
Ashley Wright, Hillsdale College
Philip Wegmann, Hillsdale College
Bronte Wigen, Hillsdale College
KANTNER FOUNDATION INTERN
Rob Richards, University of Florida
DAVID A. KING INTERN
Megan Walden, Kansas State University
KEVIN KLINE INTERN
Jenna Durnell,
Southwest Baptist University
KEVIN KOOKOGEY MEESE CENTER INTERN
Peter McGinley,
University of Notre Dame
ROBERT MAIR MEESE CENTER INTERNS
Julius Kairey,
Cornell University
Blake Willis,
University of Wisconsin, Madison
ROBERT S. AND JANET L. MILLER FOUN-
DATION INTERNS
Alayna Ackerman,
University of South Dakota
Spencer Galbraith,
Brigham Young University, Idaho
Brian Graziano,
University of Pennsylvania
Bridget Mudd, University of Virginia
Melody Wood, Christendom College
CARTER & MOYER INTERN
Louis Cona, Georgetown University
NICHOLSON FOUNDATION INTERNS
Chris Farhat,
American Military University
Victoria McCaffrey, Hillsdale College
FULA AND ENRICO PELITTI INTERN
Ben Snodgrass
Patrick Henry College
PILGRIM FOUNDATION INTERNS
Alexander Shen, Dartmouth College
Kate Wakeman, Briar Cliff University
DORIS AND RICHARD PISTOLE INTERN
Meghan DiSesa, Grove City College
RAY FOUNDATION INTERNS
Lourdes Bautista,
Ave Maria University
Joshua de Gastyne, Emory Universty
Abigail Thompson, Stetson University
HAMILTON RODDIS FOUNDATION INTERNS
Lauren Aragon,
The University of Oklahoma
Travis Klein, Virginia Military Institute
Andrew Pappert,
Syracuse University College of Law
Chandler Thornton,
American University
Andrew Tucker, Davidson College
JORDAN SAUNDERS INTERN
Natalie Johnson,
James Madison University
GREG SHEEHAN MEESE CENTER INTERN
Andrew Block,
George Mason University Law
COL. CHARLES B. AND SALLY G.
STEVENSON INTERN
Madeleine DeGeorges,
Auburn University
GEORGE W. TIPPINS INTERN
Jacob Valdez,
University of Pennsylvania
TOM TRACY INTERN
Hillary Rosenjack,
Vanderbilt University
RON WEINEL INTERN
John McKenna,
University of Notre Dame
SAMUEL L. WESTERMAN
FOUNDATION INTERNS
Hanna Hebert, Allegheny College
Andrea Barragan, Yale University
WILLIAM M. YOUNG MEESE CENTER
INTERN
Kayla Murrish, Grove City College
THE ROBERT AND AUDREY ZINSER MEESE
CENTER INTERN
James Hampson,
Pennsylvania State University
29
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
HERITAGE ACTION:
SETTING THE AGENDA FOR VICTORY
The only reliable habit of government is growth. It is necessary,
therefore, to cool the congressional hothouse before hardy, conservative
policy reforms can take root.
At November’s Sentinel Summit in Atlanta, Jessica Anderson, Heritage Action’s Grassroots Director, warms up the crowd before
introducing a dozen Sentinels to speak about their personal experiences in political activism. BELOW: Sentinels fit right in with
fellow patriots George Washington and Ronald Reagan at the Sentinel Summit photo booth.
I
f conservatives are to have any success, we must do more
than slow the rate at which progressive forces are overtak-
ing the land. We must stop them in their tracks.
That was the view when Heritage Action for America was cre-
ated in 2010, and it was Heritage Action’s charge in 2014. Our
mission: to champion the conservative policy recommenda-
tions of The Heritage Foundation and create the conditions
necessary to turn those policies into law.
It was a big challenge, and so Heritage Action “went big” in
2014. As The Wall Street Journal wrote of us, “the group is
issuing a broader call-to-arms, challenging conservatives
to renew their commitment to an agenda that champions a
more-robust foreign policy and elevates marriage and reli-
gious liberty, as well as the same free-market economic pop-
ulism that characterized its earlier initiatives.”
The American people responded. In November, they spoke.
And conservative candidates—for state as well as federal
offices—won big.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
30
In the national elections, few issues were more impactful
than the threat of President Obama’s executive amnesty for
illegal immigrants. The year before, Heritage Action almost
single-handedly had held the line against overwhelming odds.
National Review characterized the situation as “David against
the Gang of Eight’s Goliath,” noting that Heritage Action was
basically the last line of defense against amnesty.
What a difference a year makes! In 2014, opposition to
amnesty prevailed in race after race, leading America’s more
conservative political party to historic victories.
The election was also informed by continuing grassroots dis-
enchantment with Obamacare. When Heritage Action began
in 2010, a leading Republican senator said talk of full repeal
was “frankly a distraction.” Yet today, full repeal remains so
much a part of the legislative and political conversation that
the new GOP-majority is plotting how and when to execute
its battle plan.
Full repeal is certain to be a central issue in the next national
election as well, and all candidates will have to address it. Her-
itage Action has made continued focus on Obamacare’s flaws
a centerpiece of its strategy. As a result, government-run
health care has not had a chance to settle into the foundation
of the country like previous entitlement programs, such as
Social Security. The Left has been so busy trying to defend
Obamacare, it’s been unable to take the next step in expand-
ing the government takeover of our health system.
Even as Heritage Action fought to keep the big issues on the
table, it managed to rack up an impressive number of smaller
policy victories throughout 2014.
•	 As The Hill reported, Heritage Action “led the fight”
against bailing out the International Monetary Fund—a
provision the Administration tried to tack onto a bill
to help Ukraine. Ultimately, the White House dropped
the effort.
•	 A bipartisan, government-inflating energy efficiency
bill met defeat for the second year in a row. So promi-
nent and detailed was Heritage Action’s opposition, our
arguments were included in a Congressional Research
Service report on the bill.
•	 After six long years, emergency federal unemploy-
ment benefits—a drag on employment growth—were
Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, echoed Heritage Action’s objections
to crony capitalism in his May 20 speech at Allison Auditorium.
Its title: A Time for Choosing: The Main Street Economy vs.
The Washington Crony Economy.
A REVOLVING DOOR TO FREEDOM
For decades, The Heritage Foundation has been a source
of conservative talent for congressional and executive
branch offices. With conservatives making sweeping gains
in the 2014 elections, Heritage Action for America’s team
found itself in high demand.
Erin Siefring, Heritage Action’s Chief Liaison with House
members, became Chief of Staff for Rep. Dave Brat,
R-Va. Legislative Strategist Cari Kelly became Legislative
Director for Rep. Gary Palmer, R-Ala. And Communica-
tions Deputy Katherine Rosario became Communications
Director for Rep. Ken Buck, R-Colo. The trio joined an
impressive group of Heritage Action alumni already in
Congress, including Rep. Ron DeSantis’s, R-Fla., Chief of
Staff, Rep. Mark Walker’s, R-N.C., Legislative Director and
Sen. Ted Cruz’s, R-Texas, Digital Director.
As Heritage Action CEO Michael A. Needham told Roll
Call, “Having people on the Hill who think the way we
think is certainly good for what we’re trying to achieve.”
But the story doesn’t end there. As Roll Call noted, the
“revolving-door at the conservative group is spinning
both ways.”
Sondra Clark, who left Heritage a year earlier to ramp
up the Republican National Committee’s digital effort,
joined Heritage Action as Digital Director. Thomas Binion
became our new Legislative Strategist after a stint as Rep.
Steve King’s, R-Iowa, Legislative Director.
Speaking of Heritage and Heritage Action, Needham said,
“One of the great advantages of being a large, permanent
institution is that we’re able to help people take what
they learn here and spread that throughout the pub-
lic-policy universe.” That is how we win.
31
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
allowed to expire. Both the Associated Press and The
Hill noted Heritage Action’s “influential” role in making
that happen.
•	 For the second time in as many years, Heritage Action
worked with allies on the House Judiciary Committee
to block consideration of a Senate-passed Internet sales
tax bill. This spared countless small businesses from a
potentially obliterative new tax.
•	 Thanks to multiple bruising, high-stakes fights in the
past, the Senate didn’t even bother to consider several
sovereignty-threatening, Obama-endorsed treaties.
And, even in the midst of the Obama era, Heritage Action
managed to secure an important victory on Obamacare. The
elimination of taxpayer-backed bailouts to insurance compa-
nies led Politico to describe Heritage as a “top conservative
powerhouse.”
As Heritage Action fought on policy, it also shifted the rheto-
ric and messaging surrounding important legislative battles.
It was a message Chief Executive Officer Michael A. Needham
took to “FOXNews Sunday” shortly before the election. “Over
the next couple of months,” Needham advised, the Republi-
can Party “can do great things to show the American people
that it’s a party that stands for opportunity for all Americans
and favoritism to none.”
New concepts and messages often take years before they
become ingrained in political discourse. And it is through
extended legislative battles that messages are refined and
converts are won. By all accounts, Heritage Action success-
fully injected its message about opportunity vs. favoritism
into the national debate over the Export-Import Bank. Her-
itage Action pressed to end the FDR-era institution which
Barack Obama, while still a senator, once assailed as “little
more than a slush fund for corporate welfare.” In 2014, oppo-
sition to this taxpayer-backed bank reached its highest point
in more than four decades, and many pundits are predicting
its demise in 2015.
Fighting favoritism is a noble endeavor, but incomplete with-
outreplacingthetoxicpolicieswithtrueconservativereforms.
This is why Heritage Action continued to advance an oppor-
tunity agenda by promoting principled policies modeled on
Heritage Foundation ideas. These included Sen. Mike Lee’s
(R-Utah) and Rep. Ron DeSantis’ (R-Fla.) higher education
reform bill; Rep. Jeb Hensarling’s (R-Texas) bill to end Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac; Rep. Raul Labrador’s (R-Idaho) bill to
protect religious liberty, and Sen. Marco Rubio’s (R-Fla.) bill
to soften the wage-stifling impact of labor unions. In this way,
The Wall Street Journal noted, Heritage Action “championed
the party’s most conservative lawmakers and legislation.”
TOP: Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C., discusses education reform and his
legislative proposal to expand school choice at Heritage Action’s
Conservative Policy Summit. BOTTOM:, Heritage Action Presi-
dent Michael Needham explains how the new Congress can use the
10 key reform bills presented at the Feb. 10 Summit as benchmarks
of a conservative agenda.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
32
Heritage Action’s 2014 policy victories and the spadework
done to be even more impactful over the next three years did
not occur due to blind chance. Behind every victory and every
reform proposal lay superior policy arguments. But that has
been true since the inception of The Heritage Foundation
four decades ago.
Heritage Action’s unique inside-outside approach to Capitol
Hill is starting to shift the incentive structure in Washington.
Success in Washington requires more than facts and moral
persuasion. Rewards abound for elected officials willing to
shirk their principles and sell out their constituents. Law-
makers must feel constant pressure to do the right thing, even
if they are acting to protect their own political interests.
That is why the Sentinel Program exists.
It began as a small team of 267 Sentinels in 2012. Since then
their ranks have swollen to 10,227. These individuals are com-
munity leaders, “influentials” with a substantive reach—via
civic organizations, political clubs, and activist communities—
of 1.44 million people. They are highly motivated and highly
informed. They ask tough questions at town hall meetings,
write well-timed letters to their local newspapers, and use
social media to apply pressure to their members of Congress.
Conservative Americans look to Heritage Action’s Sentinels
for leadership and knowledge on the important legislative
battles in Washington.
“While most of the political attention is on the developing
2016 presidential field, the most consequential action in
2015 will be taking place within the newly GOP-controlled
Congress,” the National Journal wrote. “Expect the Heritage
[Action] to be on the forefront of that fight—and its success in
Congress will go a long way in determining the [conservative]
movement’s long-term clout.”
CAFFEINATED ACTIVISM
For many in Washington, August is a time to relax. That’s
not the case at Heritage Action. Throughout the five-week
congressional recess, Heritage Action Sentinels, with the
help of Heritage Action Regional Coordinators, hosted a
series of events we called, “Coffee with Your Member.”
These intimate gatherings gave our Sentinels an oppor-
tunity to break from the seemingly endless legislative
battles on Capitol Hill and develop a personal relationship
with their Representatives. Relationship-building is a key
component of our overall strategy for helping Sentinels
know the issues, grow their networks, and go out and
lead in their communities.
The events also gave lawmakers the opportunity to expe-
rience the vast reach, knowledge, and professionalism of
Heritage Action. Heritage Action Sentinels worked seam-
lessly with our Regional Coordinators and members of our
Washington-based government relations team to orga-
nize coffees with more than a dozen lawmakers. House
Members attending the informal affairs included Reps.
Mo Brooks (Ala.), Michael Burgess (Texas), Curt Clawson
(Fla.), Ron DeSantis (Fla.), John Fleming (La.), Paul Gosar
(Ariz.), Doug Lamborn (Colo.), Luke Messer (Ind.), Scott
Perry (Pa.), Reid Ribble (Wis.), Matt Salmon (Ariz.), David
Schweikert (Ariz.), and Ted Yoho (Fla.).
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, (right) meets privately with Heritage Action Sentinels before delivering the 9th Annual
Margaret Thatcher Freedom Lecture on Dec. 10.
33
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
DRAWING INSPIRATION
AND STRENGTH DAILY
Y
ear after year, our members inspire us. In hundreds of
one-on-one meetings around the country… at scores
of public and private events hosting old friends and
new… at our President’s Club meeting right here in Wash-
ington, our members challenge and embolden us every day
to fight for the vision we share. That vision is one of making
Washington a place where lawmakers and bureaucrats serve
the people–not the other way around.
In 2014, our members demonstrated their confidence in
us as never before. They donated a record $91 million to
Heritage, and supported Heritage Action for America at a
record high level of $10 million as well.
And it is that support that enables the Heritage enterprise
to do everything possible to advance our shared vision. It
makes possible the world-class policy research and analysis
that has always been our trademark. It makes possible our
research-based communications and marketing strategy
that reveals the most effective messages for reaching hearts
and minds and spurring action. It makes possible Heritage
Action’s bold advocacy of Heritage’s policy solutions and its
ability to hold lawmakers accountable.
It has even made it possible to upgrade and expand our phys-
ical presence on Capitol Hill. In 2014, we had the honor of
recognizing donors with the dedication of three new facil-
ities: the Glen W. Bell, Jr., Radio Studio, the George Strake
and Al Herzstein Team Lounge (target opening November/
December 2015) and the E. W. Richardson American Lead-
ership Building (target opening in May/June 2017).
Our members want to see Washington reclaimed and changed
for good. We are humbled by the trust they have placed in us.
And we are determined to keep earning that trust through
every policy battle we fight in pursuit of our shared vision
of an America that offers opportunity for all and favoritism
to none.
In the newly-christened Colbert Conference Room, Heritage Founder Ed Feulner (2nd left) and President Jim DeMint unveil a portrait of
Thomas Colbert. Looking on are Colbert (far right) and his wife, Ann. BOTTOM: Associate Members Wendy and Jason Damron catch
up with Regional Manager Richard McAdams (left) at the 2014 Leadership Conference in Naples, Fla.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
34
Members tell us they feel
connected to The Heritage
Foundation. Maybe that’s
because, to us, they aren’t just
supporters­­—they are family!
If you plan to visit our nation’s
capital, we would enjoy
welcoming you to our campus.
Let us give you a tour of what
you have built.
Thank you for your help in
making Heritage the leading
conservative organization
in America.
MEET THE GROSSMANS
Jerry and Jackie Grossman of Great Falls, Va., have always
been conservative. But they weren’t always involved in pol-
icy battles like they are today. Between their work—Jerry
as the Managing Director of an investment banking firm
and Jackie in education—and raising two daughters, they
didn’t have much time to spare.
But 10 years ago, as Jerry’s career began winding down,
the Grossmans became more involved. “As the election
approached,” Jerry recalls, “it became clear that the polit-
ical left would stop at nothing to disparage President Bush
and conservative positions in general.”
As a military veteran, Jerry was disappointed with the
Republican failure to refute the Left’s anti-military talking
points. Moreover, he says, “There seemed to be no strong
voice in defense of conservative principles, no leadership
in support of America’s traditions and foundational beliefs.
The ultimate result was the election of Barack Obama.”
The Grossmans found the leadership they wanted when
family friends introduced them to The Heritage Foun-
dation. Jerry and Jackie soon became members, but
they didn’t realize all that Heritage had to offer until
they attended the 2010 Annual Leadership Conference.
“It gave us the opportunity to talk with many Heritage
experts,” says Jerry. “We were very impressed.”
After the conference, the Grossmans began look-
ing for more ways to get involved with Heritage. “We
decided that, while we planned to support a number of
organizations, Heritage would be our No. 1 priority,” Jerry
notes. In 2011, they joined the Heritage Legacy Society,
changing their will to make Heritage a recipient of estate
proceeds. “We wanted to support an organization that
had sustained its quality, grown its influence, and would be
around for many years,” Jerry says.
In December, Jerry took his involvement to the next level,
becoming a Board Member of Heritage Action.
The Grossmans want our nation to return to the principles
of our Founding Fathers. They look to Heritage to help
achieve this goal, and they encourage others to do the
same: “If you’re concerned about the governance of the
country and looking for ways to help turn the country back
toward its founding principles, you couldn’t select a better
organization to support than The Heritage Foundation.”
Board Member Brian Tracy and his wife, Barbara (standing left) renew acquaintances with other
Heritage members during a reception at the 2014 Annual Leadership Conference.
35
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
2014 HERITAGE FOUNDATION
FOUNDERS
Legacy Society Members Sylvia and Bud Hahn (left) share a laugh with tablemates at the welcome reception of the President’s Club meeting.
CHAIRMAN’S CIRCLE
Mr. Richard Aster, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Rick Gaby
H.N. and Frances C. Berger Foundation
Hanwha Group
Mr. and Mrs. George L. Mayer
Patrice Richardson, M.D.
Mr. Douglas O. Robinette
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rumpel
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Saunders III
Ms. Karen Buchwald Wright
TRUSTEES’ CIRCLE
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Allison
The CHEAR Foundation
The Richard and Helen DeVos
Foundation
Albert and Ethel Herzstein Charitable
Foundation
Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation, Inc.
The Dr. P. Phillips Foundation
Barbara Richardson
Sarah Scaife Foundation
Mr. Pike H. Sullivan
Don and Jo Wells
FOUNDERS
Aequus Institute
Mr. Rafael Ahlgren
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Amos, Jr.
Amway
Ms. Betty A. Anderlik
The Anschutz Foundation
The Armstrong Foundation
Barney Family Foundation
Bell Charitable Foundation
Helen W. Bell Charitable Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. J. Bayard Boyle, Jr.
The Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Coffey
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Colbert, Sr.
Adolph Coors Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Jason Damron
Mr. and Mrs. Cortlandt S. Dietler
Mr. Sherman Ewing
Mr. David L. Fargo
William Howard Flowers, Jr.
Foundation, Inc.
Freedom Partners
Gleason Family Foundation
Google, Inc.
Mr. Robert M. Gordon
Nancy Grimes
Gardner Grout Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. John Nils Hanson
The Grover Hermann Foundation
Mr. James M. Hill, Jr.
Howard Charitable Foundation
Mr. Paul J. Isaac
Mr. Cary Katz
Charles Koch Charitable Foundation
Mr. Mark Kolokotrones
Mr. Robert C. Lea, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Gregg Mamikunian
Mr. and Ms. E. John McConnell
M. J. Murdock Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Joe P. Murphy
Ms. Barbara G. Myers
The Frederick and Julia Nonneman
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Roderick Odom
Dian Graves Owen Foundation
Charles Maxfield and Gloria F. Parrish
Foundation
The Robert S. & Star Pepper
Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Gary L. Pilgrim
Project Liberty
Mr. and Mrs. Dick J. Randall
The Roe Foundation
Mr. Robert W. Rust
B.K. Simon Family Charitable
Foundation
Mr. Willis B. Skillman
Mr. Larry H. Smead
Mr. Thomas J. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Smith
Thomas W. Smith Foundation
Sorenson Legacy Foundation
Pike and Susan Sullivan Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Uihlein
Mr. William N. Vaughan
Mr. Jacques Vinmont, Jr.
The Walton Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald B. Weinel
Mr. G. Greeley Wells
Lillian S. Wells Foundation
Mrs. Marion G. Wells
The Robert and Audrey Zinser
Survivors Trust
11 Founders have asked to remain
anonymous.
2014 HERITAGE
FOUNDATION
ASSOCIATES
PREMIER
ASSOCIATES
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Allison
The AWC Family Foundation
Mrs. Andrea Carlton
Mr. James F. Causley, Jr.
Mrs. Onnalee O. Doheny
Donahue Family Foundation, Inc.
Ms. Patty A. Edwards
Mr. and Ms. Robert S. Giles
Herbert H. and Barbara C. Dow
Foundation
The Holman Foundation, Inc.
Ms. Norma N. Janecky
Mr. and Mrs. J. Robert Johnston
Mrs. Frances Keegan
Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Keiser
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Kellen
The Kingdom Fund
Mr. William March
Mr. and Mrs. Jim H. McManus, Jr.
Microsoft Corporation
The Morris Foundation
Mr. Van A. Nguyen
Mrs. G. Ralston
Arthur N. Rupe Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Saliba, Sr.
Saliba Family Charitable Foundation
William E. Simon Foundation
Mrs. Mary C. Smith
Ms. Dorothy Stephens
Mr. Warren G. Teates
Mr. and Mrs. Brian S. Tracy
Triad Foundation Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Trzcinski
Mr. Michael S. Turner
Mr. and Mrs. Jeff P. Van Dyke
Ms. Christina F. Vanderwende
Mrs. Ardis Walters
Dr. Keith C. Wold, Jr.
Mr. Thomas R. Zucker
EXECUTIVE
ASSOCIATES
Abbvie
Mr. Fred Allen
Altria Client Services
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
36
Mrs. Faye B. Andrews
Mr. Fredirick W. Arndt
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Aune
Bader Family Foundation
Mr. David L. Bethany
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Brady
Ms. Gretchen Brooks
Mrs. Carole B. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. George R. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. David W. Caldwell
Challenge Foundation
Ms. Gladys Choate
Mr. Arthur Cinader
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Crail
Mr. and Mrs. Carl A. Davis
Mrs. Betty Rae Davis
Mr. Lawrence F. DeGeorge
The William H. Donner Foundation,
Inc.
Miss Dorothy M. Engle
Mr. and Ms. Nicholas P. Fatouros
Mr. B. E. Faulkner
Federal Home Loan Bank Of Dallas
Mrs. Bettie C. Fenton
Mr. and Mrs. Philip M. Friedmann
General Electric Foundation
Mr. Harold E. Goodell
Mr. Thomas S. Gordon
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Grossman
The Hamill Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Clay W. Hamlin III
Mr. and Mrs. Ron J. Hazlett
Heavy Construction Systems
Mr. and Mrs. T. Brockett Hudson
Mrs. Elinor Jacobs
The JM Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Kalmbach
Vernon Krieble Foundation
The Fred A. Lennon Charitable Trust
Lockheed Martin Corp.
Mr. and Mrs. William Lowndes III
Ms. Genevieve MacHarg
The Maclellan Foundation Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Mair
The Markkula Foundation
Mr. Robert Maxwell
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. McGrath
Mr. and Mrs. Gregory McNece
Mrs. Carolyn McVey
Mr. and Mrs. Norman J. Metcalfe
Mr. Michael T. Monahan
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Morrow
Melvin J. and Harriet H. Naser
Charitable Trust
Mr. L. C. Neely, Jr.
Ms. Margaret J. Nelson
Mr. David W. Niemiec
Mr. Darryle L. Owens
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Plute
John William Pope Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Powers
Ms. and Mr. Adrienne Price
Mr. Bruce Rastetter
Ms. Lillian Spang Rath
Ray Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Manson Reedal
Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Reynolds
Dr. Nathan E. Saint-Amand
Glenn Scharp
Mr. and Mrs. Don Scifres
Mr. Charles Smith
Strong Foundation Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Cameron Sutton
Mrs. Paul Taylor
Mr. Michael Vickers
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace E. Volwiler
Mr. and Mrs. Dale M. Walsh
The Weiler Foundation
Mr. Donald M. Wilkinson
ASSOCIATES
Mr. David Joel Adams
Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Adler
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert F. Amelio
Mr. Joe Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Anderson
Mr. Alfred A. Angelo
Jeffrey B. Armour
Larry P. Arnn
Mr. and Mrs. Caesar A. Arredondo
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Ascher
Mr. William S. Atherton
Mr. and Mrs. Laurel Auxier
Dr. and Dr. John A. Baden, Ph.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Roland W. Baird, Jr.
Mr. J. Allen Baird
Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Banning
Mr. and Mrs. Richard O. Bard
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Barkei
Mr. Peter Barrett
Mr. Jonathan Barrett
Mr. Harold J. Baxter
Mr. Lee A. Beaman
Mr. and Mrs. George Beck
Mr. John A. Belanich
Benwood Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Bertch
Mr. B. A. Bleier
Mr. and Mrs. Kipton Blue
Mr. and Mrs. Drew Boersma
Mr. Stephen W. Boesel
Mr. Ronald Boone
Frederick Bornman Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Norm H. Bouton, Jr.
Mr. Darnall W. Boyd
Brady Family Trust
Tarren Bragdon
Ambassador and Mrs. Stephen F.
Brauer
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Brickman
Dr. and Mrs. Bart J. Broadman
Mr. James A. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Craig R. Brown
Mr. Ken Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Bruce
John Buerge
Mr. and Mrs. Dean L. Buntrock
Mr. and Mrs. David Burckel
Mrs. Jane Button
The Mary H. Cain Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Campbell
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Carter
Ronald L. Carter
Mrs. Jimmie I. Caswell
Mr. Richard Castiglia
Chevron Corporation
Mr. James Choi
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Clark
John Clough
Comcast Corporation
Miss Susan D. Conger
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald A. Cook
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Cook
Corporate Press, Inc.
Ms. Mary Lou Countryman
Mr. and Mrs. Garland D. Cox
Mr. Sam Croom
Mrs. Gay Cummings
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Davis
Mr. James C. Day
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. DeLapp III
Mr. and Mrs. Jim W. DeMint
Ms. Mary Lou Des Champs
Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Dettmer
Mr. James H. Dible
Mrs. June Dickson
Dodge Jones Foundation
Mrs. Joyce H. Doty
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Drinkward
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Edgerly
Mr. Douglas C. Edman
William J. and Julia M. Edwards
Foundation
Mr. James W. Eggers
Mr. Charles Elbert
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Ellis
Mrs. Connie L. Elsaesser
Erickson Family Charitable
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Erwin
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Etheridge, Jr.
Evenstad Family Foundation
Dr. Peter C. Farrell
Mr. Hubert B. Finch
Mrs. Sara B. Fleming
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Flinn, Jr.
Mr. Peter H. Flood
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Foxley
Mr. Stanley E. Fulton
Girish Gaitonde
Mr. Warren Galkin
Mr. and Mrs. Roland E. Garlinghouse
LEFT: Board Member Belden Bell (far right) and his wife, Rae (both members of the Heritage Legacy Society), join Dr. David Brown,
Honorary Chairman and Trustee Emeritus, and his wife, Ann (far left), on the patio of the Ritz-Carlton in Naples, Fla.
RIGHT: Also mingling at the Leadership Conference reception were Executive Associate Members Mike and Sara Rose (left)
and Associate Members Bill and Lynn Shearer.
37
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Mr. Bob W. Garthwait, Jr.
Roger Gatewood
Mr. and Mrs. J. Patrick GavaghanRollin
M. Gerstacker Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Ed W. Gilbertson
Mrs. Janet W. Gildermaster
Mr. Robert J. Gillette and Ms.
Geraldine Pietrosante
Mr. William R. Goddard, Jr.
Mr. Earl Godwin
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin H. Goehring
Pierre F. and Enid Goodrich
Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Gordon
Mr. Keith Gordon
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce C. Gottwald, Sr.
Ms. Alice S. Graefe
Mr. and Mrs. Leo G. Graham
Mr. Jerome Green
The Albert M. and Lyda M. Green
Foundation
Mr. Richard S. Griffith
Mr. Bob Guess
Mr. Michael Henry Guetz
Mr. and Mrs. Willis Hamilton
Mr. and Mrs. Harold E. Hamilton
Dr. and Mrs. John F. Hamrick
Mr. Allen R. Hartman
Marilee Hatcher
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry L. Hayden
Ms. Reta K. Haynes
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Hendricks
The Herbold Foundation
Mr. K. William Hess
Ms. Joan O. Hinken Ashley
Harry Hinkle
Mr. and Mrs. Edson P. Holland
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence P. Holleran
Mr. Herbert Hostetler
Mr. and Mrs. Peter H. Huizenga
Mrs. Caroline R. Hunt
Mr. and Mrs. Randall K. Hunter
The Huston Foundation
Immanuel Charitable Foundation
William D. Jones
Ms. Rebecca L. Julian
Mrs. Nancy F. Jung
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Karpus
Fritz & Adelaide Kauffman Foundation
Mrs. Isabelle Blanche Kay
Mr. Harry P. Keegan IV
Dr. and Mrs. Michael F. Kelley
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Kempner
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Bruce Kern
Mr. and Mrs. Don F. Kesler
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Kirkland
Kita Hahn Kook Center USA
Mr. and Mrs. True H. Knowles
Mr. Joe T. Knox
Mr. and Mrs. E. Aaron Koelsch
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Komarek
Dr. William Kontras
Mr. and Mrs. Dean R. Koontz
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kozlowski
Mr. Richard A. Kreitzberg
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Lazof
Mr. Richard T. Lee
Legett Foundation
LeMans Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Levy
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Lewis
Dr. and Mrs. Robert T. Lewit
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Lindner
Mack C. Lindsey
Ms. Joan T. Loos
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Lozick
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Lyons III
Jack A. MaCris, M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Maguire
Mr. and Mrs. John Mahoney, Jr.
Mr. Todd R. Mall
Thomas Mays
Mr. Walter McDonald
Mr. and Mrs. Scott William McEachin
Mr. Denman K. McNear
Mr. James B. McWethy
Mrs. Dae Miller
Mr. Harvey L. Miller
Gerrish H. Milliken Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey E. Mills
Mitsui USA
Mr. Christopher S. Moody, Sr.
Mrs. William H. Moore
Moore Memorial Trust
Mrs. Carol A. Morris
Mr. William G. Morrison
Ms. Mary V. Murfey
Mr. Terence H. Murphree
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Murphy
Mr. and Mrs. Robert O. Naegele, Jr.
The Negaunee Foundation
Mr. James O. Nelson
Mr. and Mrs. Roger R. Nelson
Mr. Ernst E. Neubauer
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce S. Nicholas
Mr. David J. S. Nicholson
Mr. and Mrs. Todd S. Nicholson
Mr. Donald A. Oeters
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Ohrlund
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Olivier
Mr. and Mrs. James J. O’Neill
Mrs. Franca G. Oreffice
Mr. and Mrs. San W. Orr, Jr.
Ms. Yvonne Oshima
Mr. and Mrs. Bryan Owens
Dr. and Mrs. K. Nicholas Pandelidis
C.N. and Maria Papadopoulos
Charitable Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Parsons
Mr. John Pastusek
Mr. and Mrs. William Payne
Ms. Fula Pelitti
William Penn Foundation
Mrs. Meredith Person
Lovett & Ruth Peters Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Guido M. Pichini
J. A. Pierce
Dr. L. Harrison and Mrs. Janet
Pillsbury
The Hon. Jayne H. Plank
Ms. Loretta Poindexter
Mr. and Mrs. Allen Bruce Porter
Mr. and Mrs. Reinhold Preik
Jack R. Purcell
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Quinn, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Bobby Rankin
MEMBERSHIP LEVELS
LEVEL	 STARTING AT
BASIC.......................................................$25
PATRIOTS CLUB.................................... $100
YOUNG PRESIDENT’S CLUB................. $250
PRESIDENT’S CLUB........................... $1,000
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE................. $2,500
PREMIER PRESIDENT’S CLUB........... $5,000
ASSOCIATE.....................................$10,000
EXECUTIVE ASSOCIATE.................$25,000
PREMIER ASSOCIATE......................$50,000
FOUNDER.................................... $100,000
TRUSTEES’ CIRCLE....................... $500,000
CHAIRMAN’S CIRCLE...............$1,000,000
FOR DETAILS ON THE BENEFITS ATTACHED TO EACH LEVEL,
PLEASE CALL (800) 546-2843 OR VISIT MYHERITAGE.ORG.
A panel of Heritage Action Sentinels answer questions from the
audience at November’s Sentinel Summit in Atlanta.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
38
Dr. and Mrs. Michael E. Reif
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Reite
Mr. Terry D. Richardson
Mr. Robert E. Richardson
Mrs. Anna L. Roberts
Mrs. Lisenne Rockefeller
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Rothenberger
Mr. Raymond E. Rowland, Jr.
Mr. Jerome D. Ryan
Mr. and Mrs. Mike Rydin
Mr. Thomas Sanfacon
Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Schierl
Mr. and Mrs. William Schneider
The Sence Foundation
Mr. Mark Shevitz
Louis and Nellie Sieg Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Siegel
Dr. Lawrence Simon
Mr. David Smith
Mr. Randell A. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Snyder
G. Whitney Snyder Charitable Fund
Mrs. Shirley M. Sontheimer
Mr. J. C. Sparkman
Ms. S. Corinne Spence
Mr. and Mrs. Craig Staley
Ms. Nadine S. Stannard
Ms. Virginia Stickell
Mrs. Diane J. Stites
Strake Foundation
Mrs. William A. Strong
Mr. Joe Chat Sumner III
Sunmark Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Kermit S. Sutton
Mr. Joseph Duane Swanson
Mr. and Mrs. Gary L. Swenson
The Sidney A. Swensrud Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Mike Thom
Ms. Martha L. Thomas
Mr. Arthur Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. Clifford L. Thomson
Mr. Thomas Tipi
Mrs. Erma Jean Tracy
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Tucker
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Tucker
Mr. Jack E. Turner
Ed Uihlein Family Foundation
Steve & Cindy Van Andel Foundation
Mr. John K. Vanier
Mr. and Mrs. William Vareschi
Count Ferdinand von Galen
Mr. James R. Voss
Mr. and Mrs. Emory Waldrip
Mrs. Gloria M. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. T. Urling Walker
Mr. W. B. Walsh
Mr. Charles Reynolds Watkins, Jr.
Katharine Audrey Webb Foundation
Mr. Duane M. Weise
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Weiss
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Weiss
Mr. Ernie R. West
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Wheeler
Dr. and Mrs. Charles J. Willey
Mr. W. Grant Williams III
Mrs. Eugene F. Williams
Dr. Jane L. Williamson, D.V.M.
Ms. Roberta Winters
James Wintersteen
Mr. and Mrs. Bark Hay Wong
Mr. Wirt Yerger III
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Young
Ms. Leslie Dorn Young
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Young
Mr. and Mrs. Roger Ziemer
Mr. Dan Zimmerman
Laura J. Zulueta
39 Associates have asked to remain
anonymous.
Glenn Beck wraps up a private tour of his TV studio for Jim DeMint and a group of Texas Members including Founders Debbie
and Jim Smith (to DeMint’s right) and Associate Member Randy West (far right).
TOP: In Naples, Fla., Pamela Hoffman shares highlights from
Jim DeMint’s latest book with President’s Club Member Louise
Brigham (far left), Colette Frankson, and Associate Members
Libby and Jim Huyuck (far right). ABOVE: Premier Associate
Member Bob Gordon (left) and Associate Member Tom Gordon
(right) cruise the Potomac with Jim DeMint during the
President’s Club meeting in October.
39
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
A GREAT GIFT TO HONOR ONE OF “THE GREATEST GENERATION”
When he was taken prisoner by Nazi soldiers, WWII
bomber pilot and squadron commander E.W. “Rich”
Richardson thought he would never see his family again.
Happily, he was wrong. Patton’s troops liberated his prison
camp, and Richardson returned home. Eventually he set-
tled in Albuquerque, where he started his own family and
a new chapter in his extraordinary life.
Richardson built one of the nation’s top Ford dealer-
ships, and until his passing in 2003, he used the fruits of
his success to encourage the good work of others in his
community. His philanthropy included gifts to numerous
universities, including the University of Nevada Medical
School where his daughter, Dr. Patrice K. Richardson,
earned her degree.
In 2013, Dr. Richardson honored her late father by estab-
lishing James J. Carafano, Ph.D. as Heritage’s first E.W.
Richardson Fellow. A leading expert on defense issues,
Carafano also serves as Vice President of our Kathryn and
Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for National Security and
Foreign Policy.
In June 2014, Dr. Richardson honored her father’s life and
legacy in an even bigger way. She announced that her
family would make an eight-figure gift to Heritage and
Heritage Action to help bring Washington back in line with
the principles that guided E.W. Richardson throughout
his life: free enterprise, traditional American values, and a
strong national defense. In doing so, she issued a subtle
challenge to other Heritage members: to help pay tribute
to the men and women of “the greatest generation.”
In gratitude to Patrice Richardson as well as Rich’s wife
Barbara, Heritage in November formally dedicated its
new E.W. Richardson American Leadership Building—a
seven-story office building and conference center, whose
purchase and renovation was made possible by this
remarkable family’s remarkably generous gift.
TOP LEFT: Board members break ground for a sorely needed underground parking garage at Heritage HQ.
TOP RIGHT: E.W. Richardson, World War II bomber pilot. BOTTOM: Artist’s sketch of Heritage’s Massachusetts Ave. complex,
with the E.W. Richardson American Leadership Building to the right.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
40
TOP LEFT: Founder Betty Anderlik and Ed Feulner get
artistic during a painting workshop at the Leadership
Conference. TOP RIGHT: Michael Barvick (center), Heritage’s
Director of Major Gift Planning, greets Founders John and
Barbara Rumple at the Leadership Conference in Naples.
MIDDLE: (left to right) Associate Member Lynda Middlemas,
Founders Elizabeth and Rod Odom, Associate Member William
Middlemas and Heritage Asst. Director of Major Gift Planning
Andrew McIndoe enjoy the outdoor reception at the
Ritz-Carlton. BOTTOM: Associate Members Susan Conger
(left) and Martha Ann Hunter (right) were among those
enjoying the river cruise at the annual President’s Club meeting.
41
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
MEET ROBERT STUMP
A child of the Great
Depression, Robert Stump
learned the importance of
hard work at an early age.
“My parents were just two
farmers out here in Iowa,”
Robert recalls. “They
taught me to respect hard
work and conservative
values.”
For years Robert’s father
rented a 140-acre farm. Eventually, his hard work and
saving allowed him to buy 260 acres. Today, the farm is
worth nearly $2 million and belongs to Robert’s five chil-
dren. “Because of my father’s hard work, my children are
getting a financial boost,” Robert notes, “something they
can hang on to for the rest of their lives.”
The farm is an incredible blessing, but Robert was trou-
bled by how much his children had to pay in inheritance
taxes. “People work all their lives to build something they
can leave to their children,” Robert says, “and then the
government steps in with the inheritance tax.” His desire
for lower taxes and less government interference led him
to join The Heritage Foundation.
Robert sees firsthand the government interference that
Heritage is fighting. As the President of Libertyville Sav-
ings, his town’s local bank, he deals with government-im-
posed red tape daily. “We’d be a lot better off if govern-
ment stayed out of our way and let us do our business,”
he says.
To get our nation back on track, Robert believes we must
educate future generations. “I think the best thing we
can do as parents or grandparents is instill in them con-
servative values,” he says.
And he believes that both present and future generations
can look to Heritage as a guiding light. “I’d encourage
everyone to support Heritage,” says Robert. “They are a
real force working for a smaller, more responsible govern-
ment that will benefit all Americans.”
TOP: President’s Club Members William and Mary Grant
enjoy a light moment during a briefing at the October meeting
in D.C. Next to them is Legacy Society Member Bob Hanrahan.
MIDDLE: Premier President’s Club Member Carol Manning
shares her experiences as a grassroots activist at the Sentinels
Summit. At her side is fellow Sentinel Donna Ellingsen.
BOTTOM: Associate Member William Cook (left) and William
Deiter enjoy a break in the February 2014 Regional Meeting in
Bonita Springs, Fla.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
42
A LEGACY OF OPPORTUNITY
FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS
In a letter to his wife, John Adams wrote, “Posterity! You will never
know how much it cost the present generation to preserve your freedom!
I hope you will make good use of it.”
Heritage’s Wall of Freedom honors Founding Members of our Legacy Society, men and women who have made
a commitment to preserve “the sacred fire of liberty.”
L
ike America’s Founders, Heritage members do under-
stand the great cost of freedom, and our Legacy Society
members are especially committed to preserving it for
future generations.
In 2014, Legacy Society members informed us of estate
plans that include more than $57 million in new commit-
ments to Heritage.
Co-chaired by Rae and Belden Bell of Marshall, Va., and
Marion Wells of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., the Heritage Leg-
acy Society welcomes the members listed beloq who let
us know in 2014 that they wanted to use their estates or
other planned gifts to help secure America’s freedom for
her posterity.
Mr. Robert Allen
Dr. John H. Ball
Mr. Roger Barnsby
Mr. Tim F. Beals
Mr. and Mrs. Irvin Berry
Mr. Roland Besel
Mr. Richard Brunson, Sr., PhD
Mr. and Mrs. Eldon L. Buckner
Mrs. Dorothy A. Campbell
Mr. William J. Campion
Mr. Lawrence C. Cattran
Mr. Walter Chaffee
Ms. and Mr. Velma J. Chapman
Ms. Gladys Choate
Mrs. Marjorie Tolle Clements
Dr. and Mrs. Douglas P. Clough
Mr. Andrew J. Combe
Mr. James Crane
Honorable T. K. Cribb, Jr.
Mrs. Diana Daniel
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Davis
Mr. G. Allen Davis, Jr.
Mr. Robert E. Davis
Ms. Nina Derda
Mr. Fred Desel
Mr. James H. Dible
Dr. Robert G. Dillon
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Donahue
Mr. Don Eaton
Ms. Nancy Eaton
Mr. Timothy D. Elmore
Dr. J. Pat Evans
Mr. and Mrs. Herman Flink
Mr. John H. Folkomer
Mr. Robert B. Forsyth
Mr. James Slatz Gaines
Mr. Robert Glasure
Ms. Welene Worthington Goller
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Gorton
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Greene
Ms. Nancy Grimes
Mrs. Kathryn C. Hach-Darrow
Mr. Gary Hanson
Mr. Robert Hawk
Mr. Joseph H. Hayes
Mr. John Henderson
Mr. Glen D. Hester
Mrs. Sarah W. Hodgins
Ms. Kathleen M. Hogan
Mr. Floyd L. Hoover
Mr. James D. Houston
Mr. John W. Hurst, Sr.
Ms. Mimi January
Mr. Martin C. Johnson
Mr. Robert T. Jones
Mrs. Nancy F. Jung
John W. Karrow, M.D.
Mrs. Lois A. Keller
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore G. Keller, Jr.
Mr. Richmond Kilpatrick
Mr. Thomas A. King
Mr. Neal Kirkham
Mrs. Kevin Kiser
Mr. Joe Knox
Dr. Daniel J. Koretz
Ms. Helen Irene Lantz
Mr. Andrew Lenard
Ms. Bettie W. Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Linnen, Sr.
Louis M. Linxwiler Jr.
Ms. Nancy M. Lockstead
Mr. and Mrs. Jesse William Lovelace
Mrs. Helga W. Mackey
Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Maguire
Ms. Sheryl Maier
Mr. David Majernik
43
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
Mr. Edward C Malmstrom
Mrs. Ellen Marchand
Dr. Fredrick W. Marx, Jr.
Mr. Thomas May and Mrs. Cynthia
Eldred
Mr. Ronald L. Mercer
Mr. Ross Merritt
Mrs. Dae Miller
Mr. Roy Miller
Mr. Sam M. Monson
Mr. Al Moore
Mrs. Sheila K. Morgan
Ms. Henrietta Morris
Mr. John T. Morris
Mr. Donald Mountz
Mr. Don Neumann
Valyrie R. Nibley
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Nichols
Mr. and Mrs. Reinhard Nottrodt
Ms. Molly B. Nugen
Salvatore Thomas Nuzzarello, M.D.
Father James A. Ogurchock
Mrs. Yvonne Oshima
Mrs. Paul Ottenfeld
Camille Parra
Mr. George Paterson
Mr. Don Pearce
Mr. and Mrs. Carl B. Pearlston
Mr. Wes Perry
Rev. and Mrs. Peter C Picos
LeRoy W. Plekenpol
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Plute
Dr. and Mrs. Les Pospisil
Mr. John T. Pratt
Patrice Richardson, M.D.
Mr. Gerald F. Riseley
Maureen Rolnick
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Rostvold
Ms. Ethel Ruck
John H. Rumpel
Mr. Donald Russeau
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Sadkin
Larry Schneider
Mr. Alan C. Shapiro
Mr. S. A. Silverstein
Mr. Jeffrey Simon
Mr. Harry Sims
Mr. and Mrs. Jim Sink
Barbara D. Smart
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Smith
Ms. Gloria Spencer
Mr. Robert C. Stahl
Mr. Jeffrey Steinkamp
Ms. Dorothy Stephens
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Stiles
Mr. Dave Stopke
Mr. Robert C. Sugden
Mr. Robert Szendroi
Mr. Warren G. Teates
Mr. Curtis Templeton
Mrs. Cynthia Tennyson
Ms. Martha L. Thomas
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Stewart Trimbath
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Vanghan
Mr. and Mrs. Don VanRenterghem
Mr. Norman F. Von Herzen
Ms. Elaine Wahrenberger
Ms. Sally Waller
Mr. Robert M. Weekley
Dr. Jane L. Williamson, D.V.M.
Mr. James Winfield
Mrs. Bonnie Winslow
Ms. Roberta Winters
Mr. and Mrs. Bark Hay Wong
Mr. and Mrs. Roger Ziemer
28 Heritage Legacy Society members
wish to remain anonymous.
WITH GRATITUDE, WE HONOR THE MEMORY OF THOSE HERITAGE
LEGACY SOCIETY MEMBERS WHOSE GIFTS WE RECEIVED IN 2014:
Mr. Rafael Ahlgren
Ms. Mary Alchian
Ms. Juanita L. Alexander
Mr. Douglas F. Allison
Mr. Fredirick W. Arndt
Mr. Richard Aster Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph Bernatschke
Mr. David L. Bethany
Mr. B. A. Bleier
Mr. Ken Brown
Mr. J. Randolph Buck
Mr. Donald P. Burgess
Mrs. Jimmie I. Caswell
Mr. Stan Christovich
Ms. Mary Lou Countryman
Mr. J. Leo Cronin, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Davis
Ms. Sue H. De Shazo
Rev. Louis DeSalvo
Mr. Frederick M. Dierks
Mr. and Mrs. Cortlandt S. Dietler
Mrs. Onnalee O. Doheny
Mr. Charles Elbert
Miss Dorothy M. Engle
Mr. Sherman Ewing
Ms. Virginia A. Fairfield
Mr. David L. Fargo
Mrs. Bettie C. Fenton
Mrs. Louise Fischer
Mr. Thomas Fitzgerald
Mrs. Janet W. Gildermaster
Mr. Harold E. Goodell
Ms. Alice S. Graefe
Mr. John B. Heenan
Mr. James M. Hill, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. T. Brockett Hudson
Mrs. Elinor Jacobs
Ms. Norma N. Janecky
Mr. Richard F. O. Kaiser
Mr. and Mrs. Richard G. Kull
Mr. Robert C. Lea Jr.
Ms. Genevieve MacHarg
Jack A. MaCris M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. John Mahoney, Jr.
Mr. William March
Mr. Robert Maxwell
Mr. and Ms. E. John McConnell
Mr. Ray E. McGowan
Mr. William G. Morrison
Ms. Elaine P. Murphy
Ms. Barbara G. Myers
Mr. Ernst E. Neubauer
Mrs. Ruth Peckham
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Powers
Ms. Ashley V. Proctor
Mrs. G. Ralston
Mr. Herman R. Rasch
Mr. and Mrs. Manson Reedal
Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Reynolds
Mrs. Anna L. Roberts
Mr. Douglas O. Robinette
Mr. Hugh Rose
Mr. Ray Samuelson
Mr. Dale A. Sargent
Mrs. Mary C. Smith
Mrs. William A. Strong
Mr. Pike H. Sullivan
Mrs. Paul Taylor
Mr. Thomas Tipi
Mrs. Martha R. Van Sickle
Ms. Christina F. Vanderwende
Mr. William N. Vaughan
Mr. Jacques Vinmont, Jr.
Mr. G. Greeley Wells
Mr. John A. Yohn
Mr. Thomas R. Zucker
Five Heritage Legacy Society members
wished that their gifts remain
anonymous.
The Hon. George Strake, former Texas Secretary of State and an
Associate Member of Heritage, addresses fellow conservatives at a
local meeting of Heritage members in Houston.
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
44
HONORINGDONORINTENT
When giving to any nonprofit, you should be
able to rely on the organization do three things:
•	 use your gift to advance its mission;
•	 honor any restrictions you place on
the gift, and
•	 treat you with respect.
Unfortunately, many philanthropic organizations have
broken faith with their donors.
At The Heritage Foundation, we regard your support as
a trust. We hold ourselves strictly accountable to you,
and we pledge always to respect your philanthropic
intent. Indeed, our Articles of Incorporation demand it.
Should any major donor desire a written contract clearly
stating the purpose and intent of the donation and how
it shall be spent, we will gladly sign it. Moreover, we
make the president of Heritage personally responsible
for answering donor questions and reporting expendi-
tures of donor funds.
This is our solemn pledge to you: When you contribute
to The Heritage Foundation, your intent as a donor is
always honored, never forgotten.
TOP: Founders Sally and George Mayer enjoy a casual
discussion during a reception at the Annual President’s
Club meeting in Washington, D.C. BOTTOM: Heritage
Founders William and Brenda Amos flank Dr. Ben
Carson following his inspiring speech at the
President’s Club.
45
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION | heritage.org
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL, FAVORITISM TO NONE
OUR MISSION:
To formulate and promote conservative public policies based on the
principles of free enterprise, limited government, individual freedom,
traditional American values, and a strong national defense.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Thomas A. Saunders III, Chairman
Barb Van Andel-Gaby, Vice Chairman
Meg Allen
Larry P. Arnn, Ph.D.
The Hon. Belden H. Bell
Midge Decter
The Hon. Jim DeMint
Edwin J. Feulner, Ph.D.
Steve Forbes
Todd W. Herrick
Jerry Hume
Kay Coles James
Mark A. Kolokotrones
Rebekah A. Mercer
The Hon. J. William Middendorf II
Abby Moffat
Nersi Nazari, Ph.D.
Robert Pennington
Anthony J. Saliba
William E. Simon, Jr.
Brian Tracy
Phillip N. Truluck
William L. Walton
Marion G. Wells
HONORARY TRUSTEES
David R. Brown, M.D., Chairman Emeritus
The Hon. Frank Shakespeare
OFFICERS
The Hon. Jim DeMint, President and CEO
Phillip N. Truluck, Executive Vice President
David S. Addington, Group Vice President
Edward T. Corrigan, Group Vice President
John P. Fogarty, Group Vice President
Geoffrey J. Lysaught, Group Vice President
Bret Bernhardt, Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff
John M. Mitnick, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
John Von Kannon, Vice President and Senior Counselor
As a nonprofit 501(c)3 organization, we rely on the financial contributions of
the general public: individuals, Foundations, and corporations. We accept no
government funds and perform no contract work. We welcome your support.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
214 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE N.E.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-4400 
| Heritage.ORG
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL | FAVORITISM TO NONE
46
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
*Preliminary results – final audited financial statements
will be available on or after July 31, 2015
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION*
As of December 31, 2014
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents 	 $6,807,296
Receivables 	 13,367,690
Prepayments and other assets 	 878,644
Total current assets 	 21,053,630
Investments 	 174,608,681
Receivables, net 	 4,083,324
Property and equipment, net 	 60,574,654
Other assets 	 725,584
Total long-term assets 	 239,992,243
TOTAL ASSETS 	 $261,045,873
LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 	 $8,826,553
Notes payable 	 518,065
Total current liabilities 	 9,344,618
Notes payable 	 18,688,885
Deferred obligations and planned gifts 	 15,870,694
Total long-term liabilities 	 34,559,579
TOTAL LIABILITIES 	 43,904,197
Unrestricted net assets:
Board designated 	 109,836,527
Undesignated 	 60,401,926
Temporarily restricted net assets 	 43,503,223
Permanently restricted net assets 	 3,400,000
Total net assets 	 217,141,676
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 	 $261,045,873
92% | Contributions
8% |
75% | Programs
22% | Fundraising
3% |
2014 OPERATING REVENUES
2014 OPERATING EXPENSES
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES*
Year ended December 31, 2014
OPERATING REVENUES
Contributions:
Individuals 	 $77,369,643
Foundations 	 11,105,962
Corporations 	 2,790,537
Total operating contributions 	 91,266,142
Investment withdrawal 	 5,466,419
Program revenue 	 231,542
Rental and other income 	 2,169,688
Total other operating income 	 7,867,649
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES 	 $99,133,791
OPERATING EXPENSES
Research 	 $22,786,847
Education 	 27,650,469
Media and government relations 	 8,083,403
Total program services 	 58,520,719
Fundraising 	 17,007,379
Management and general 	 2,380,734
Total supporting services 	 19,388,113
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 	 77,908,832
NET GAIN FROM OPERATIONS 	 21,224,959
NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES
+ Net investment gain 	 10,867,359
+ Restricted contributions 	 10,528,558
( - ) Depreciation 	 3,632,838
( - ) Interest expense 	 540,495
( - ) Investment withdrawal	 5,466,419
( - ) Loss on disposal of other assets 	 2,039,585
( - ) Change in restricted net assets 	 8,050,526
TOTAL NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES 	 1,666,054
CHANGE IN NET ASSETS 	 22,891,013
NET ASSETS - BEGINNING OF YEAR 	 194,250,663
NET ASSETS - END OF YEAR 	 $217,141,676
Program revenue
and other income
Management and
General
What They’re Sa
ying about Heritage,
Heritage ActioN...
“The Heritage Foundation, long known as a font of conservative ideas, …has emerged in recent years
as a newly powerful political force on the right, pushing congressional Republicans to
oppose what is sees as excessive federal spending and policies that benefit specific industries.”
—Jonathan Martin, The New York Times, Jan. 8, 2015
“The one-two punch of scholarly research and grassroots activism has made
Heritage formidable in the world of think tanks.”
—William Douglas, McClatchy Newspapers, Dec. 1, 2014
“Frequent calls for unity in the nation come from many sectors, though most simply push
emotional buttons while delivering little substance. Enter the Heritage Foundation, which is now
setting forth this simple, but canny thought: ‘Uniting America through conservative reform.’
The idea could prove a mighty foil to narratives repeated in the mainstream media that claim both
the conservative movement and the Republican Party are without a clear message and plagued
with infighting.”
—Jennifer Harper, The Washington Times, Feb. 10, 2014
...and Heritage President Jim DeMint
“DeMint, the former Republican senator from South Carolina who now runs the conservative
Heritage Foundation, is widely seen as the godfather of the tea-party movement …
[Even while serving in the House, he] cared about policy and took a long view of politics.”
—Dana Milbank, The Washington Post, Dec. 16, 2014
214 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE N.E. | WASHINGTON, DC 20002
(202) 546-4400 | HERITAGE.ORG
