Pact A N N U A L   R E P O R T
2 0 0 8 - 2 0 0 9
www.pactworld.org
Educated and motivated people are the world’s strongest resource. Pact continues our fundamen-
tal work empowering people around the world, assisting more than 12,000 organizations in 59
countries in the key areas of health, the environment, economic empowerment, democracy/gover-
nance, and peace building. Those groups in turn reach millions more with vital assistance, partner-
ing with people to improve their lives and build their own capacity to transform their world.
For nearly 40 years, Pact has operated on the firm belief that the best kind of assistance harnesses
local knowledge and expertise. We want to leave behind institutions and individuals with the ability
to pull themselves and their communities out of poverty, allowing them to define their own future.
We have grown tremendously over the past several years. This is a testament to the confidence
our donors have in Pact to deliver on its promise. While scale is important, quality and integrity are
imperative. We are redoubling our efforts to monitor and measure our program quality in order to
ensure the people we serve are receiving the best support possible, and that we are effective and
accountable stewards of the resources entrusted to us on their behalf.
We maintain our commitment in challenging locations such as Sudan, the Democratic Republic of
Congo, Myanmar and Zimbabwe. We also fund groups working in Afghanistan and Somalia. Often
it is in these environments where we find vast, untapped human potential.
Pact empowers women and young girls through our WORTH program, by acknowledging women’s
crucial role in local economies and in the well-being of families and communities. Our successful
large-scale microfinance project in Myanmar is bringing much-needed economic opportunity to
people coping with the aftermath of a major cyclone. Our strong community-based work on the en-
vironment will continue to grow as we expand our efforts in biodiversity conservation and bringing
local communities into the emerging carbon market.
At our core, Pact continues to believe that building the capacity of others to improve their own lives
is the best way to carry out our mission. We will continue to build on a strong tradition of innova-
tive responses to the ever-changing challenges people face.
We hope you continue to learn more about Pact and the difference our organization makes in the
lives of people around the world.
D ear f r i end s o f P a c t
Stephen H. Oleskey
Mark Viso
Mark Viso
President and CEO
Pact
Stephen Oleskey
Chairman, Board of Directors
Pact
Pact’s mission is to build empowered communities, effective
governments and responsible private institutions that give people an op-
portunity for a better life. We do this by strengthening the capacity of or-
ganizations and institutions to be good service providers, represent their
stakeholders, network with others for learning and knowledge sharing,
and advocate for social, economic and environmental justice. Interde-
pendence, responsible stewardship, inclusion of vulnerable groups, and
respect for local ownership and knowledge are core values across all of
our programs.
Special Note: In April 2009, Mark Viso became Presi-
dent and CEO of Pact when Sarah Newhall stepped
down after nine years of leadership. Pact grew tre-
mendously under Sarah’s leadership and vision. Her
passion and drive helped make Pact the institution it is
today. She has our deepest gratitude and admiration
for the fine legacy she has built.
Sarah Newhall
HEALTH and HIV/AIDS
Pact prevents the global spread of HIV/AIDS while helping to provide
services for those already living positively, and to orphans and vulner-
able children. Through our global Community REACH program, we work
toward our vision of communities united by courage and hope, equipped
with strengthened capacity, and energized to lead the fight against HIV/
AIDS. Pact also seeks to find new and effective ways to combat dis-
eases, such as malaria and tuberculosis, which prevent communities
from thriving.
In South Africa, USAID funds Pact’s HIV and AIDS umbrella grant
management program to support local NGOs working to mitigate the ef-
fects of HIV and AIDS through delivery of treatment, care and support.
Pact provides sub-partners with extensive on-site mentoring and formal
trainings as part of a comprehensive organizational and technical capac-
ity building effort designed to ensure quality results. Pact’s Monitoring,
Evaluation and Reporting (MER) partner capacity building program is
considered a best practice by the US government’s Office of the Global
AIDS Coordinator.
Pact South Africa’s program helped launch similar HIV and AIDS pro-
grams throughout Southern Africa (Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland and Le-
sotho) and still serves as a model framework in the design of Pact HIV/
AIDS programs worldwide.
In Namibia, Pact provided a broad range of services to nearly 85,000
orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) during the 2008-2009 fiscal year.
Pact also worked with the Child Welfare Directorate at the Ministry of
Gender Equality and Child Welfare to improve the quality of services
offered to these children—including food, shelter, health care and educa-
tional support among others—and worked with the Ministry’s grantees
to ensure OVC service standards were being met.
In Brazil, Pact is working in close partnership with local organizations
and State and Municipal Health Departments to upgrade and expand
HIV testing options, particularly for most-at-risk populations. As part of
these efforts, Pact Brazil is piloting the use of alternative testing sites
and mobile testing units to reach homosexual men.
In Myanmar, Pact’s Strengthening Community Response to Disease
(SCR) program resulted in 20,000 newly constructed or renovated fly-
proof latrines. This sanitation initiative, along with other measures, has
helped drastically reduce cases of chronic diarrhea and tuberculosis.
Furthermore, many of the staff doctors in this program were mobilized
for recovery efforts in more than 700 villages during the devastating af-
termath of Cyclone Nargis.
O ur W or k
In the HIV/AIDS field alone, Pact helped provide 2.3 million people with HIV/AIDS programming and assistance:
•	 1.5 million youth received community prevention messaging
•	 535,335 orphans and vulnerable children were provided essential services
•	 180,000 people were tested and received the results
•	 36,000 pregnant women were given antiretrovirals to prevent transmissions to the child
DEMOCRACY and GOVERNANCE
Pact helps to create an enabling environment for effective governance,
resulting in linkages between government, private business and civil
society at national, regional and local levels. We assist our partners
to establish legal frameworks to protect and promote civil society, in-
crease citizen participation, improve institutional and financial viability of
civil society organizations (CSOs), enhance the free flow of information,
and strengthen democratic political culture.
In Belarus, Pact addresses the impact of fragmented civil society on a
constituency living in a restrictive political environment.  We supported
the establishment and development of several key local organizations
that now serve as communication and knowledge-sharing platforms in
their respective fields.
In Tanzania, Pact’s Public Expenditure Tracking System (PETS) pro-
gram brings communities together to hold local leaders accountable.
PETS has enabled Tanzanians to locate missing medicine, open clin-
ics, provide water sources, improve sanitation, and in several cases, to
bring corrupt local government officials to court, see cases go to trial
and watch these officials face jails sentences.
Through our Civic Advocacy for Reform and Stability (CARS) program,
Pact’s technical assistance helps civil society partners in the Kyrgyz
Republic encourage citizen action and effectively promote democratic
reforms. Informative media programming reinforces this work through
two branded programs: “El Kanesh” on television and “Asman” on the
radio.
In Madagascar, Pact developed the Local Governance Barometer
(LGB) to objectively measure the strengths and weaknesses of local
administrations. Five rural and urban communities recently hired Pact
Madagascar, using their own budgets, to help them uncover gover-
nance issues in the health and education sectors. Government, civil
society and the private sectors collaborated to make changes, dem-
onstrating rapid positive impact in the delivery of health and education
services.
PEACE BUILDING
Pact’s peace building work aims to create or support the necessary
conditions for sustained peace. We do so by strengthening viable politi-
cal, socioeconomic and cultural institutions so that they can mediate
conflict. Pact’s work gives special emphasis to citizen participation and
empowered civil society, combined with high quality, up-to-date con-
flict analysis that allows us to adjust programming as needed in rapidly
changing environments.
Part of Pact’s PEACE II project is “peace dividends,” or projects that
highlight the benefits of maintaining peaceful relationships, in the form
of infrastructure along the Kenya–Somalia border to relieve pressure
on communities sharing limited resources. Pact’s method of engaging
local stakeholders in a fair and transparent process for selecting con-
tractors has reduced violence and changed the way local government,
non-governmental organizations and the private sector do business with
local communities.
Pact Sudan organizes youth and traditional leaders’ conferences, wom-
en’s forums and youth exchange visits in the Three Areas of Abyei,
South Kordofan and Blue Nile states. These activities are aimed at ad-
dressing long term root causes of conflict, with the ultimate goal of
calming threats to the Comprehensive Peace Agreement.
ENVIRONMENT and NATURAL
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Pact is scaling up our environmental and natural resource management
portfolio, and is in the early stages of a new biodiversity program. Our
approach puts local communities at the center, and by enabling them to
manage natural resources and improve their own livelihoods, ensures
sustainability and lasting conservation.
The Community Forestry Partnership (CFP) in Cambodia is the country’s
first Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degredation (REDD)
project. The CFP will provide vital resources and livelihood opportunities
to the 52 participating villages—comprising of almost 65,000 hectares of
vital forest in the Oddar Meanchey province along the Cambodia-Thailand
border. The project seeks to sequester more than 8.5 million tons of CO2
over the next thirty years while protecting critical forests that provide for
the communities and wildlife that depends on them.
A major component of Pact work’s in Democratic Republic of Congo
relates to natural resource extraction, such as minerals and timber. Pact
focuses on building bridges between competing resource actors: Govern-
ment, large-scale companies, artisanal miners and loggers, civil society,
traditional leaders, and other community interest groups. Pact applies a
variety of tools such as land use mapping, participatory planning, conflict
and risk assessment, and organizational capacity assessments.
Pact will soon begin a new biodiversity project in the Ustyurt Plateau—an
area encompassing the Uzbekistan–Kazakhstan border—funded by
the USAID Sustainable Conservation Approaches in Priority Ecosystems
(SCAPES) Leader with Associates (LWA) Cooperative Agreement. The
award was made late in the fiscal year and marks a major step Pact’s in-
creased commitment to the environment.
LIVELIHOODS
Pact’s livelihoods efforts focus on encouraging savings, microenterprise de-
velopment, and linking communities with markets to generate income.
In Myanmar, Pact operates the largest microfinance project in the country,
assisting more than 73,000 borrowing groups. Much-needed capital makes
its way into the community to provide income generating opportunities for
people living in harsh economic and political environments. Pact has more
than 1,200 staff in Myanmar to carry out our program.
In Vietnam, Pact supports people living with HIV and their caregivers to har-
ness market forces to improve their livelihoods – and thus their health and
welfare. We support pilots in group production and microenterprise financed
through both micro-loans and micro-grants. Some of the business activities
include motorcycle repair, a prominent city-center flower shop, envelope
manufacturers, garment production, sundry stalls, and animal husbandry.
EDUCATION and EMPOWERMENT
In all of Pact’s work, we strive to empower individuals, communities and or-
ganizations with the knowledge and resources necessary to better their own
circumstances.
WORTH, a women’s empowerment program currently operating in nine
countries, teaches women to be good bankers as well as responsible bor-
rowers. WORTH women report a host of benefits to joining the program in-
cluding access to capital, literacy, and increased standing in the community.
In Ethiopia, Girls’ Empowerment Through Sexual Exploitation Termination
(GET SET) project assists girls at risk of sexual exploitation and abuse in their
communities and schools. As part of the program’s two-pronged approach
of working with the girls themselves and the institutional structures that
support them, GET SET has provided physical and verbal self-defense train-
ing to 77 female students in Gambella region since it began in April 2008.
Public
Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID)
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)
Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA)
Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade 	
Canada (DFAIT)
Department for International Development (DFID, UK)
Government of Norway
Government of Southern Sudan
Royal Danish Embassy
Swedish International Development Cooperation 	
Agency (SIDA)
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
US Agency for International Development (USAID)
US Department of Labor
US Department of State
World Bank Group
World Food Programme (WFP)
World Health Organization (WHO)
PRIVATE
Action Aid
American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee
amfAR
AngloGold Ashanti
Anvil Mining
Camfed
Chevron
Chevron Foundation
Clinton Foundation
Danish Church Aid
Development Alternatives, Inc.
Elton John Foundation
Family Health International
Ford Foundation
Foundation Ensemble
Frontier Mines
Geneva Global
Institute of International Education
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
International Union for Conservation of Nature
Johns Hopkins University
Microsoft
Management Systems International
National Democratic Institute
Nike Foundation
Oak Foundation
Open Society Forum
Oxfam America
Packard Foundation
Population Services International
Replan
Salvation Army World Service
Tenke Fungurume Mining
Wildlife Conservation Society
Winrock
World Wildlife Fund
Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
Pact also thanks the more than 12,000 local
organizations with which we partner around
the world.
P artner s
Stephen H. Oleskey, Chair
Partner, WilmerHale LLP
Dr. M. Lyndon Haviland, Vice Chair
President, Lyndon Haviland & Co LLC
Kevin Bonderud
Communications/Public Affairs Consultant
Ana Rita González
Senior VP and Partner, Fleishman-Hillard
Dr. Nancy J. Hafkin
Director, Knowledge Working
Rebecca Lynn-Crockford
Senior VP, Director of Compensation
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Kevin Mitchell
Director, Internal Audit, BreitBurn Energy
Sarah Morgenthau, Esq.
Nancy Murphy
Consultant
James Nowicki
ED, JPMorgan Chase Hedge Fund Services
Pamela Roussos
Entrepeneur
Donald R. Sherk
Professional Lecturer, SAIS, Johns Hopkins University
Frank Sims
Cargill Incorporated (retired)
Eva T. Thorne
Meyer and Walter Jaffe Asst. Professor of Politics,
Brandeis University
Amb. Jennifer C. Ward
Associate Dean
Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service
Georgetown University
John Whalen
President and CEO, CoreWeb
B oard o f d i re c tor s
P A C T   O FFIC E S
Africa Regional Office
Graham Wood, Vice President
Nairobi, Kenya
Tel: +254 20 387 0775
Email: gwood@pactafrica.org
Asia Regional Office
Kurt MacLeod, Vice President
Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Tel: +855 23 217 855
Email: kmacleod@pactasiaeurasia.org
Brazil
Lilia Rossi, Chief of Party
Rio de Janeiro
Tel: +55 21 355 30321
Email: lrossi@pactbrasil.org
Cambodia
Georgia Beans, Country Representative
Phnom Penh
Tel: +855 23 217 855
Email: gbeans@pactcambodia.org
Democratic Republic of Congo
Rachel Perks, Country Representative
Lubumbashi
Tel: +243 81 51 00 101
Email: rperks@pactworld.org
El Salvador
Sandra Duenas, Program Manager
La Libertad
Tel: +503 2287 2954
Email: sduenas@pactworld.org
Ethiopia
Leslie Mitchell, Country Representative
Addis Ababa
Tel: +251 11 662 3786
Email: leslie@pactet.org
Haiti*
Karl Jean Louis, Chief of Party
Port-au-Prince
Kenya
Steven Sharp, Country Representative
Nairobi
Tel: +254 20 387 8271
Email: steven@pactafrica.org
Kyrgyz Republic
Donna Stewart
Country Representative
Bishkek
Tel: +996 312 611247
Email: dstewardt@pactworld.org
Lesotho
Kholotsa Moejane, Chief of Party
Maseru
Tel: +266 2 231 2700
Email: kholotsa@pact.org.ls
Madagascar
Jean-Michel Dufils
Country Representative
Antananarivo
Tel: +261 20 226 2841
Email: jmd@pact.mg
Malawi
Matthew Tiedemann
Country Representative
Lilongwe
Tel: +265 175 0570
Email: mtiedemann@pactmw.org
Myanmar
Fahmid Bhuiya, Country Representative
Yangon
Tel: +95 1 501380
Email: fahmidk@gmail.com
Namibia
Stephanie Posner, Chief of Party
Bachbrecht
Tel: +264 61 303 793
Email: sposner@pactnamibia.org
Nigeria
Dan Spealman, Country Representative
Abuja
Tel: +234 9 461 9570
Email: dan@pactnigeria.org
South Africa
Malika Magagula
Country Representative
Pretoria
Tel: +27 12 361 9885
Email: malika@pactsa.org.za
Sudan
Judith McCallum
Country Representative
Juba
Tel: +256 477 129 123
Email: jmaccallum@pactafrica.org
Swaziland
Todd Malone, Chief of Party
Mbabane
Tel: +268 404 5579
Email: todd@pactsd.org.sz
Tanzania
Dan Craun-Selka
Country Representative
Dar es Salaam
Tel: +255 22 276 1933
Email: dcraun-selka@pactworld.org
Thailand
David Dobrowolski
Country Representative
Bangkok
Tel: +66 2 231 3402
Email: ddobrowolski@pactworld.org
Ukraine
Balazs Jarabik
Country Representative
Kiev
Tel: +38 44 287 6428
Email: bjarabik@pactworld.org
Uganda
Patrick Ojok, Program Manager
Lira
Tel: +256 782 595 588
Email: ojok_patrick@yahoo.com
Vietnam
Diana Measham
Country Representative
Hanoi
Tel: +84 4 719 8899
Email: dmeasham@pactvietnam.org
Zambia
Jeannie Zielinski, Chief of Party
Lusaka
Tel: +260 123 0458
Email: jzielinski@pactzambia.org
Zimbabwe
Christian Ellwood
Country Representative
Harare
Tel: +263 4 250 941/42/43
Email: christiane@pactzw.org
Pact DC
Mark Viso, President and CEO
Washington, DC
Tel: 1 202 466 5666
Email: info@pactworld.org
*Pact operated in Haiti, Mongolia and
Nepal during the 2008-2009 fiscal
year, but has since closed offices.
Statement of Financial Position
as of September 30, 2008
Assets	 2008
Cash and Cash Equivalents	 15,193,593
Advances and Grants Receivable	 30,657,647
Other Assets	 1,237,985
Total Assets	 47,089,225
Liabilities and Net Assets	
Accounts Payable and Accruals	 5,700,459
Refundable Advances	 37,171,283
Total Liabilities	 42,871,742
Unrestricted Net Assets	 4,061,121
Temporary Restricted	 156,362
Total Net Assets	 4,217,483
Total Liabilities and Net Assets	 47,089,225
Statement of Activities for the
Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2008
Support and Revenue	 2008
Grants and Contracts	 152,820,724
Investment Income	 -518,883
Contributions	 218,869
Other Revenue	 75,355
Total Support and Revenue	 152,596,065
Expenses	
Program Services	 140,097,562
Management and General	 12,550,298
Other Expenses	 225,417
Total Expenses	 152,873,277
Change in Net Assets	 -277,212
FI N A N CI A L  S T A T E M E N T
The financial records of Pact, Inc. are audited annually by an independent firm of certified public accountants. The financial records for 2008 were audited by McGladrey & Pullen,
LLP. A complete set of financial statements are available on request .
Program Services
91.64%
Management
& General
8.21%
Other
0.15%
E x p e n s e s
Pact Headquarters
1828 L Street, NW
Suite 300
Washington, DC 20036 USA
Tel: 202 466 5666
Fax: 202 466 5665
Email: info@pactworld.org
www.pactworld.org Photos by Carrie Keju, Ben Stocking, Traer Sunley, Sikamena Siyumbwa and other Pact staff.
