nuclear threat initiative
annual report 2009
The world is at a tipping point.
b NTI
The Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI) is a non-
profit, non-partisan organization with a mission
to strengthen global security by reducing the
risk of use and preventing the spread of nuclear,
biological and chemical weapons, and to work to
build the trust, transparency and security which
are preconditions to the ultimate fulfillment of the
Non-Proliferation Treaty’s goals and ambitions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 1
Nuclear Threat Initiative
2009 Annual Report
	 2	 Letter from the Co-Chairmen
	 6	 About NTI
	10	 Nuclear
	22	 Biological
	28	 Chemical
	30	 Public Education
	36	 Board of Directors
	47	 Advisors to the Board of Directors
	52	 Officers and Staff
	55	 Get Involved
Contents
2 NTI
Letter from the Co-Chairmen
The assembled heads of state approved
it unanimously, and a British newspaper led
its coverage with the line: “The world took
its first concerted step toward getting rid of
nuclear weapons today.” After the vote, world
leaders rallied behind the effort.
President Medvedev of Russia called the
resolution “a realistic program of action…
that will dramatically improve the situation in
the world.”
President Hu Jintao of China said, “To
create a safer world for all, we must first and
foremost remove the threat of nuclear war.”
French President Sarkozy said, “We fully
support President Obama’s initiative” and
spoke of “our commitment to a future world
with fewer nuclear weapons and perhaps
one day, a world free of nuclear weapons.”
Then-British Prime Minister Brown said
he is “committed to creating the conditions
for a world free from nuclear weapons” and
described “major steps toward disarma-
ment” already taken by the United Kingdom.
Both of us were in the UN Chamber that
historic day and proud that these heads of
state were endorsing much of the Nuclear
Threat Initiative’s work since its founding in
2001.
NTI has been working for nearly a
decade to lock down weapons and mate-
rials, change Cold War postures, reduce
nuclear arsenals and limit the spread of
uranium enrichment facilities.
In its first year, the Obama Administration
also released its National Strategy for Coun-
tering Biological Threats — forward move-
ment on another critical issue for NTI. NTI
has addressed the biological security threat
since its inception, working to improve health
security, prevent bioterrorism, promote coop-
eration and reduce tensions in the most
conflict-prone areas on earth.
Today, with the global embrace of the
vision of a world without nuclear weapons
and the steps needed to get there, combined
with the emergence of a common under-
standing of the biological threat, more
leaders are supporting NTI’s long-term
agenda of reducing dangers.
Last year saw significant forward move-
ment on NTI issues. It was also a momentous
year for its leadership. Charles B. Curtis, one
of the visionaries of NTI and its founding
president, stepped down in December 2009
as NTI’s president and chief operating officer,
after nine years in that role.
Charlie has been at the center of every
NTI accomplishment, with his expertise espe-
In September of 2009, President Barack Obama did something no U.S. President
had done in the history of the United Nations: He called for and presided over a UN
Security Council Summit. In that session, he and his fellow heads of state voted
on a resolution “to create the conditions for a world without nuclear weapons,”
endorsing steps such as arms reductions, a ban on testing, negotiating a treaty to
end production of nuclear weapons material and locking down all nuclear materials
in four years.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 3
cially vital in conceiving the nuclear fuel bank
and helping establish the World Institute for
Nuclear Security. He was also an early and
effective voice in highlighting the crucial role
of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) in preventing the terrorist theft of
nuclear weapons materials. He success-
fully called for greater global funding for the
Agency and initiated a $1.15 million grant
from NTI that has led to an IAEA Nuclear
Security Fund annual budget of more than
$25 million.
Although he will no longer run the day-
to-day operations of NTI, Charlie’s positive
impact will continue as a board member and
with the growth of the projects he launched
during his tenure as president. Charlie’s
leadership was best summed up when he
received The Energy Daily 2009 Leadership
Award for Public Policy. The judges noted
that “In addition to his professional accom-
plishments, Curtis is the rare Washington
player who has earned across-the-board —
and across-the-aisle — admiration as a skilled,
thoughtful and principled public servant.”
When they lose a founding leader, many
organizations suffer a loss of vision and
momentum. But not if you’re lucky enough to
name a successor who is herself a veteran
and early architect of the organization.
In 2000, Joan Rohlfing helped develop
the Scoping Study that led to the launch of
NTI. In nine years as senior vice president for
programs and operations, Joan has mastered
both the big vision and precise details of NTI’s
work — and she has done so by drawing on
wide-ranging experience, technical fluency
and strategic vision, born of her work in the
U.S. government.
Before joining NTI, Joan was senior
advisor for national security to the secretary
of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and
also director of DOE’s Office of Nonprolif-
eration and National Security. In the tumul-
tuous aftermath of the Indian and Pakistani
nuclear tests in the spring of 1998, Joan
took a nine-month assignment in New Delhi
to advise the U.S. Ambassador on nuclear
security issues. She has also served on the
staff of the U.S. House Armed Services
Committee and at the U.S. Department of
Defense.
While at NTI, Joan helped arrange
and design a high-level military exercise
between India and Pakistan to increase
understanding of consequences of nuclear
war. She helped conceive the Nuclear
Security Project, drawing on her expert
understanding of the strategic role of
nuclear weapons and how to reduce reli-
ance without sacrificing security. Her contri-
butions to NTI will be even more keenly felt
as she assumes the role of president.
Both Charlie and Joan have helped
shape and guide every major initiative of NTI
since its inception. We are very grateful for
their expertise and leadership during this crit-
ical time for our nation and the world.
Photo
by
Kevin
Winter/Getty
Images
Joan Rohlfing, NTI’s president, and Charles Curtis, NTI’s president emeritus.
4 NTI
While 2009 and early 2010 were notable
for many positive milestones, we also want to
recognize an important loss. Dr. Arnold Kanter,
a great friend, a former top official at the U.S.
State Department and an analyst who played
an important consulting role at NTI, died
in April 2010. We wish to acknowledge his
many contributions to NTI, to our nation and to
the larger international affairs community.
The world is at a tipping point – but it
can tip in more than one direction. By taking
steps today to reduce nuclear and biological
dangers, we can trigger fresh momentum for
more actions that tip us toward a more prom-
ising tomorrow.
This is our vision. We have deep gratitude
for the support which enables NTI’s work,
whether it is in the form of one-time contri-
butions from hundreds of individuals around
the world who have been inspired by our
work or grants from major foundations and
donors like Warren Buffett, Pete Peterson,
Frederick Iseman, George Russell, the Carn-
egie Corporation of New York and the John
D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation.
We hope many more will join us.
Visit www.nti.org to find out more about
how you can help work for a safer world.
Ted Turner
Co-Chairman
Sam Nunn
Co-Chairman
Nuclear Security Project: In coordination with Stanford Univer-
sity’s Hoover Institution, NTI supports the work of George Shultz,
William Perry, Henry Kissinger and Sam Nunn in their global effort
to reduce reliance on nuclear weapons, to prevent their spread into
potentially dangerous hands and ultimately to end them as a threat
to the world.
In January 2007, they published the first of a series of op-eds in
The Wall Street Journal, titled “A World Free of Nuclear Weapons.”
The op-ed linked a vision of a world free of nuclear weapons with
urgent and substantive steps designed to reduce nuclear dangers.
Through 2009 and 2010, momentum for the vision and steps
accelerated. Major events advanced both policy and public aware-
ness — from international events with high-level officials, to new
studies, to the release of the NTI-sponsored documentary, Nuclear
Tipping Point, which was screened at the White House, hosted by
President Barack Obama.
Above all, the last year has brought dramatic, substantive steps
by world leaders – highlighted at the Nuclear Security Summit,
where the largest number of heads of state ever to meet in Wash-
ington signed a pact to secure all vulnerable nuclear materials in
four years.
These developments were unthinkable a few years ago. Then,
many experts dismissed the vision of a world without nuclear
weapons as “wishful thinking.” Today, consensus is building for the
opposite view: What’s wishful is thinking that we can keep on the
same course and avoid a nuclear catastrophe.
2009 Highlights
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 5
World Institute for Nuclear Security (WINS): NTI helped
conceive and create this new, first-of-its-kind organization to
strengthen the security of nuclear mate-
rials worldwide. With generous support
from the Peter G. Peterson Founda-
tion, WINS brings together nuclear
security experts, the nuclear industry,
governments and international organi-
zations to focus on rapid and sustain-
able improvement of security at nuclear
facilities around the world. Cited at the
Nuclear Security Summit as “an effec-
tive forum for sharing best security
practices,” WINS now has more than
250 members from nearly 50 countries,
including representation from some of
the largest corporate nuclear concerns
in the world.
Biological Threats: NTI supports regional networks in the Middle
East and the Mekong Basin, which help strengthen health security
by reducing the impact of infectious disease outbreaks, whether
naturally occurring or intentional. The H1N1 pandemic tested the
networks during 2009. While several regions of the world were
left scrambling when the World Health Organization issued a high-
level warning for H1N1, the NTI-supported networks were already
prepared. The next step: To create a global network by connecting
regional groups, which could make an enormous difference in
strengthening global health security.
NTI has begun this process of forming
CHORDS or “Connecting Health
Organizations for Regional Disease
Surveillance.”
International Fuel Bank: Forty coun-
tries have expressed interest in pursuing
nuclear power. Many are considering
producing their own nuclear fuel so
that they don’t have to rely on foreign
suppliers. But enriching uranium can
also create material for a nuclear
weapon. To encourage countries to
procure nuclear fuel from outside
suppliers, thus limiting the number of
countries with the capacity to make nuclear weapons materials,
NTI proposed an international nuclear fuel bank to provide a
“last resort” fuel reserve and pledged $50 million, backed by NTI
advisor Warren Buffett. The contribution was contingent on the
IAEA receiving additional funding to jumpstart the reserve and the
IAEA formally approving the reserve. In 2009, the financial commit-
ment was met. NTI looks forward to additional progress that will
make this concept become reality.
Former Secretary of Defense William Perry, former
Senator Sam Nunn, former Secretary of State George
Shultz, President Barack Obama and former Secretary
of State Henry Kissinger meet in the Oval Office.
6 NTI
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 7
NTI’s work focusing on reducing threats from weapons of mass
destruction was not entered into lightly. Responsibility for nuclear, biolog-
ical and chemical weapons is primarily the domain of governments. Before
creating NTI, a group of policy and technical experts spent six months asking
the question, “Could a private organization make a difference?”
Ted Turner, Sam Nunn, founding NTI President Charles B. Curtis, current
President Joan Rohlfing and other experts concluded that a private organiza-
tion could, indeed, make a difference in reducing weapons threats.
NTI was then established in 2001. Thanks to the generosity of funders like
Ted Turner, Pete Peterson and Warren Buffett, NTI has taken action on critical
issues.
Taken direct action for a safer world
NTI:

 Helped remove nuclear bomb-making material from vulnerable nuclear
sites, creating a catalyst for greater U.S. and global funding to secure
loose nuclear bomb-making material

 Launched cooperative regional programs for disease surveillance

 Connected regional disease surveillance networks to bolster global health
security

 Established an organization to develop and spread the world’s best
nuclear security practices

 Helped accelerate efforts to destroy chemical weapons.
“… a series
of concrete
achievements,
successful steps
towards making
the world safer and
more secure.
”
Mohammed ElBaradei, former Director
General of the International Atomic Energy
Agency, describing NTI
About NTI
Shchuch’ye, Russia
NTI
Staff
Photo
8 NTI
Educated the policy community and the public
NTI:

 Commissioned the “Securing the Bomb” series which evaluates
the security of nuclear weapons and materials globally

 Produced www.nti.org – a comprehensive, authoritative source
of information on weapons threats for journalists, policymakers
and those new to the subject

 Produced two films – Last Best Chance and Nuclear Tipping
Point – to help raise public awareness of nuclear threats.
Influenced global security debates
NTI:

 Helped inject the issue of WMD threats into the 2004 and 2008
U.S. Presidential campaigns of both political parties

 Launched the Nuclear Security Project, helping trigger a new
wave of action worldwide, to reduce nuclear dangers and move
toward a world without nuclear weapons

 Laid policy groundwork that led to the global Nuclear Security
Summit in 2010.
NTI is a non-profit, non-partisan, non-ideological global initiative,
headquartered in Washington, DC, where people with different
views work together to reduce dangers from nuclear, biological and
chemical weapons.
Co-chaired by Ted Turner and Sam Nunn, NTI is governed by a
board of directors with members from China, France, India, Japan,
Jordan, Pakistan, Russia, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the
United States. Board members include a former U.S. secretary of
defense, members of the legislative bodies of the United Kingdom
and the United States, a member of the Jordanian royal family, a
Nobel prize-winning economist, a world-renowned nuclear physicist,
the former commander of U.S. strategic nuclear forces and other
international security experts.
“NTI has shown that
private resources
can be leveraged
to get governments
around the world
to do more, and I’m
pleased to support
its efforts.
”
Warren Buffett, Chairman of the Board and
CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. and Advisor
to the NTI Board of Directors
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 9
The organization's activities are directed by Co-Chairman Sam
Nunn and President Joan Rohlfing, and informed by the advisors to
the board of directors, who are leading figures in science, business
and international security. NTI is staffed by experts in nonprolifera-
tion, international affairs, communications and public health, who
have operational and international experience in their fields. Recog-
nizing that governments have most of the resources and authority in
the large-scale work of threat reduction, NTI focuses on leverage. It’s
not just what NTI can do that matters, but what NTI can persuade
others to do. NTI invests funding and effort where it can help trigger
government action, policy changes and funding increases. This
includes NTI’s direct action projects, which have been adopted and
expanded by governments.
Nobel Peace Prize winner Mohammed ElBaradei, former director
general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, has praised NTI
for “a series of concrete achievements, successful steps towards
making the world safer and more secure.”
NTI also helps educate the public in ways that inspire people
to take action, so that private individuals are now making an impact
in areas previously thought to be the exclusive province of govern-
ment. Investor Warren Buffett has said, “NTI has shown that private
resources can be leveraged to get governments around the world to
do more, and I’m pleased to support its efforts.”
In the past, when citizens and activists learned about the threats
from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, they were concerned
– but they didn’t believe they could have an impact, so they tuned
out and moved on. Today, people worried about weapons threats
can turn to NTI as a partner to work together for a safer world.
Warren Buffett
credit
Bloomberg
via
Getty
Images
10 NTI
nuclear
Nuclear
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 11
In the event of a nuclear attack, it doesn’t matter where the weapon
detonates — the entire world will feel the impact.
Twenty years after the end of the Cold War, the chances of a nuclear attack are rising, not
falling. There has been a fundamental change in the risks. The predictability and relative
stability of a two-sided nuclear standoff has been lost.
Today, terrorists are seeking nuclear weapons and materials, and there can be little doubt
that if they acquire a weapon, they will use it. Highly enriched uranium (HEU) and plutonium
are the key ingredients of a nuclear weapon. Right now, these materials are spread across
approximately 40 countries. Even under tight security, nuclear material is at risk. In November
of 2007, two teams of gunmen broke into the Pelindaba nuclear facility in South Africa, deacti-
vated several layers of security and broke into the emergency control center, where they shot
a guard. Fortunately, the guard was able to trigger an alarm, and the intruders fled. But what
would have happened if the intruders had gained access to the HEU?
Poorly secured HEU or plutonium is a serious threat to international security — and so is
the spread of the ability to produce these materials. Today, dozens of countries are considering
developing the capacity to enrich uranium and reprocess plutonium to make fuel for nuclear
power, but these same fuel cycle technologies could be used to produce nuclear weapons
materials. If the technology to make these materials spreads, the threat of nuclear terrorism
grows with it.
Furthermore, the number of nuclear weapons states is increasing — with North Korea the
most recent addition to the list of nuclear weapons states and Iran moving closer. Others
may soon follow. A world with 12 or 20 nuclear weapons states will be immeasurably more
dangerous than today’s world.
The risk of expanding nuclear weapons states is starkly illustrated in South Asia. India and
Pakistan have two large, mobilized armies. Both are fearful that the other might attack first,
and one country believes it has to threaten the use of nuclear weapons to deter a conventional
“The only value in
possessing nuclear
weapons is to make
sure they can’t be
used ever. I know
I speak for people
everywhere when I
say our dream is to
see the day when
nuclear weapons will
be banished from
the face of the earth.
That is my dream
too.
”
Senator John McCain, May 27, 2008
The Nature of the Threat
science
photo
library
12 NTI
attack. That is exactly where U.S. and the Soviet Union were for 40 years – except for three
things: the two had more experience with the weapons, more sophisticated protocols for
managing crises and more warning time.
Today, the United States and Russia continue to deploy thousands of nuclear weapons
on ballistic missiles that can be launched immediately and hit their targets in less than 30
minutes. Russia’s erosion of conventional military capability means greater dependence on
nuclear weapons, including tactical nuclear weapons.
While the overall risk of a U.S.-Russia nuclear war is down, the risk of an accidental,
mistaken or unauthorized nuclear exchange between the United States and Russia may now
be higher than during the Cold War.
Mistakes can and do happen — including in the U.S. military where there is evidence that
attention to nuclear weapons security has diminished. In August of 2007 on North Dakota’s
Minot Air Force Base, six U.S. nuclear weapons were taken out of the weapons bunker,
loaded on a B-52, and flown across U.S. air space without the knowledge or authorization of
anyone in the Air Force. If it can happen in the United States, it can happen anywhere.
The world has come to a nuclear tipping point. With no dramatic change of direction, the
likelihood of a nuclear catastrophe will multiply in the decade ahead.
Addressing the Threats
NTI works across the spectrum to address these urgent and emerging nuclear threats. Since
its inception, NTI has worked to improve international policy and cooperation among states,
international organizations, the private sector, academics and NGOs. An education and
communications program ensures public awareness and support for programs to address
WMD threats.
Securing Vulnerable Materials
From its launch in 2001, NTI argued for the primary importance of securing nuclear materials
to prevent nuclear terrorism. But NTI did more than talk.
In 2002, NTI committed $5 million to seal a deal between the United States, Yugoslavia
and Russia to remove nearly 50 kilograms of poorly secured HEU from a nuclear institute
outside Belgrade. The material was moved to Russia, where it was blended down to a form
of uranium that cannot be used in weapons. News of the operation ran on page one of The
Washington Post. It helped bring fresh attention to the threat and prompted the U.S. Depart-
ment of Energy to create a new program – the Global Threat Reduction Initiative (GTRI) – to
“If nothing
fundamental
changes, then I
would expect the use
of nuclear weapons
in some 10-year
period is very
possible.
”
Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 13
According to the IAEA, approximately 40 countries are interested in building their first nuclear power plant.
If they go forward, all of these countries will need nuclear fuel, and they will either get it by making it them-
selves or buying it from an existing supplier.
Many are considering developing their own production capabilities. But developing the ability to make
nuclear fuel also gives countries the ability to produce nuclear bomb-making materials.
To help reduce the incentive for states to pursue this technology, NTI, with Warren Buffett’s backing,
pledged $50 million to the IAEA to help create a low-enriched uranium stockpile for the benefit of nations
that choose to rely on external suppliers. The initiative, announced in 2006, gained immediate support in
a New York Times editorial titled: “Mr. Buffett’s Excellent Idea.”
Any country that meets established criteria could access the fuel bank as a “last resort.” These countries
would still rely on the global open market of nuclear fuel, but if there were political disruptions in their fuel
supply, they could fall back on the fuel bank guarantee.
NTI’s pledge was based on two conditions: (1) other nations must provide $100 million in matching funds
and (2) the IAEA and its member states must approve the terms of the fuel bank’s operation.
The first condition has been met: The U.S. government contributed the first $50 million. Four more followed
– from Norway ($5 million), the United Arab Emirates ($10 million), the European Union (€25 million) and
Kuwait ($10 million).
The second condition is under discussion. NTI officials and other fuel bank supporters have had positive
consultations with the IAEA. NTI is hopeful that the IAEA Board of Directors will reach a decision in 2010
to allow the IAEA to create the fuel reserve.
“Mr. Buffett’s Excellent Idea”
						 – The New York Times
14 NTI
Guests, including the four Nuclear Security
Project principals, listen to discussion at the
UN Security Council Summit, September 2009
remove HEU from civilian facilities around the world. Since then, GTRI has committed more
than $1 billion and removed and repatriated more than 40 nuclear bombs’ worth of HEU
from dozens of other countries.
In addition, NTI and the government of Kazakhstan eliminated more than a dozen bombs’
worth of HEU, leading to a decision by Kazakhstan President Nazarbayev to eliminate all
HEU from Kazakhstan. NTI worked closely with GTRI and the government of Kazakhstan
on planning and analysis for conversion of a research reactor from using HEU to using low
enriched uranium.
NTI has deep relationships with Russian organizations and experts. Projects included
developing options for blending down HEU and working with formerly closed nuclear cities
to secure materials and develop economic alternatives to weapons development and main-
tenance. With its robust set of relationships in Russia, NTI is in a unique position to explore
new ways of working with the country and provide support and lessons elsewhere around
the globe.
In another initiative designed to help secure nuclear materials and keep them out
of terrorist hands, NTI helped create and launch a new, first-of-its-kind organization to
strengthen the physical protection and security of nuclear materials worldwide — the
World Institute for Nuclear Security (WINS). WINS was launched in September 2008
with support from the U.S. Department of Energy, the government of Norway, the Interna-
tional Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the Institute of Nuclear Materials Management.
In September of 2009, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 1887 supporting the
initiative, calling on all states to “share best practices” in order to “raise standards of
nuclear security to reduce the risk of nuclear terrorism.” WINS now has 250 members
from nearly 50 countries. NTI gratefully acknowledges the support of the Peter G. Peterson
Foundation for this initiative.
a Vision of a World Without Nuclear Weapons
Once in a while, a big idea can begin to take hold outside of public view. This happens when
a number of policy experts, elected officials and opinion leaders note certain trends, see the
risks and opportunities, and begin independently to form the view that the world needs a new
direction.
On January 4, 2007, Shultz, Perry, Kissinger and Nunn published the first of a series of Wall
Street Journal op-eds, titled: “A World Free of Nuclear Weapons.”
The response was immediate.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 15
In the press…
The New York Times said that the authors “sent waves through the foreign policy
establishment.”
The Economist wrote, “They gave political cover to a renewed debate about whether
nuclear weapons, credited with keeping peace between the big powers after the 20th centu-
ry’s two world wars, are not part of the problem.”
In politics…
U.S. Presidential candidate, Senator McCain said, “The time has come to take further
measures to reduce dramatically the number of nuclear weapons in the world’s arsenals.”
Then-Senator Obama said, “We’ll make the goal of eliminating all nuclear weapons a
central element in our nuclear policy.”
And a nuclear weapons expert told the National Journal, “The fact that McCain and Obama
are both speaking about the elimination of nuclear weapons shows you how hard it is to over-
state the importance of that op-ed by the four horsemen.”
In policy circles…
Russian President Medvedev said, “Russia is fully committed to reaching the goal of a
world free from these most deadly weapons.”
UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown said, “We will be at the forefront of the international
campaign, to ultimately achieve a world that is free from nuclear weapons.”
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and other high-level Indian leaders affirmed the
goal of disarmament.
Two-thirds of the living former U.S. secretaries of state, secretaries of defense and national
security advisors endorsed the ideas in the op-ed.
Op-Ed Diplomacy
The Wall Street Journal op-ed generated enormous global momentum for moving toward a
world without nuclear weapons. One of the most intriguing responses was a wave of like-
minded opinion editorials from high-level, former officials around the world. By early 2010,
former officials from 11 countries (Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Neth-
erlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden and the United Kingdom) had joined together across party
lines to publicly endorse the vision and agenda by speaking out on the pages of the press. 
In Germany, former President Richard von Weizsacker, former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt,
former Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, and former Minister Egon Bahr wrote an
opinion piece in the International Herald Tribune that stated: “We unreservedly support the
“The work of the new
World Institute for
Nuclear Security
will complement the
IAEA’s efforts, and
the Department of
Energy is proud to
support it.
”
U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu,
September 2009
16 NTI
call by Messrs. Kissinger, Shultz, Perry and Nunn for a turnaround on nuclear policy, and not
only in their country.” The writers expressly cited their support for extending the START Treaty,
for U.S. ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and for the elimination of all tactical
nuclear weapons.
In France, former Prime Ministers Alain Juppe and Michel Rocard, former defense Minister
Alain Richard, and former Air Force Commander Bernard Norlain, wrote an opinion piece in
Le Monde, stating: “The success of non-proliferation is a primary necessity for peace, and it
depends on more urgent initiatives on the part of the five nuclear powers recognized in the
NPT. They have to engage in a process leading to complete disarmament with full involvement
of the three de facto nuclear powers.” 
Nuclear Security Project
It became clear that the WSJ declaration was the spark needed to light a global movement,
and NTI launched the Nuclear Security Project to help feed the momentum. NTI serves as the
coordinator of the Project, responsible for managing project activities and coordinating the
joint work of the authors, in conjunction with Stanford University's Hoover Institution. The goal
is to encourage governments – both directly and through their citizens — to embrace the vision
of a world free of nuclear weapons and to take the specific steps that will lead us there.
The Nuclear Security Project is based on a few simple principles: We will not have a
secure future if nuclear weapons and the materials to make them spread to dangerous hands.
We can’t stop the spread without widespread global cooperation. Cooperation won’t work if
the long-term vision is a world of nuclear haves and have-nots.
The Nuclear Security Project-related activities and milestones in 2009 and early 2010
included:

 NTI joined with the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the World Political Forum in
convening a conference to discuss the steps needed to move to a world free of nuclear
weapons.

 The InterAction Council, a group of more than 40 former heads of state and government
from around the world, expressly endorsed “the initiatives on nuclear disarmament by the
four American statesmen…”

 In July, the G8 leaders endorsed the vision of a world without nuclear weapons, welcomed
the start of U.S.-Russia arms reduction talks and exhorted nations to take the steps to
create the conditions of a world without nuclear weapons.
Former Russian President Mikhail Gorbachev,
Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini,
Secretary Shultz and Senator Nunn meet in
Rome.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 1
7

 In May, President Obama met with Shultz, Perry, Kissinger and Nunn in the Oval Office
to discuss nuclear policy. Speaking later with reporters, the President said that the Four
“helped inspire” the policies of his Administration. (The Norwegian Nobel Committee,
when naming President Obama as the winner of the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize, said that it
“attached special importance to Obama’s vision of and work for a world without nuclear
weapons.”)
Cultivating Confidence
The Nuclear Security Project emphasizes not just the vision, but also the steps —
such as securing vulnerable nuclear materials, reducing arsenals and promoting
a nuclear fuel bank.
Among a range of activities, NTI launched a series of studies to
help close the analytic gaps between what is known and what
must be understood in order to reach a world without nuclear
weapons. One of these studies, focusing on verification, brought
together international experts to advance understanding on a
range of specific verification challenges. Papers developed by
those experts are compiled in Cultivating Confidence: Verifica-
tion, Monitoring and Enforcement for a World Free of Nuclear Weapons (Nuclear
Threat Initiative, 2010).
Acknowledging today’s technical limitations, the book demonstrates how much
is known — monitoring warhead dismantlement and fissile material production,
for example.
This book also outlines what technical capacities are still needed and is an
example of NTI’s efforts to “tackle the practical problems.” Hand-in-hand with
building the political conditions for a world without nuclear weapons, NTI is
working to identify the technological needs to verify and enforce it.
18 NTI

 In June, Senator John McCain cited the 2007 op-ed of the Four when speaking on the
Senate floor about the unveiling of a statue of President Ronald Reagan in the Capitol. He
quoted from President Reagan’s speech to the Japanese Diet in 1983: “The only value
in possessing nuclear weapons is to make sure they can’t be used ever. I know I speak
for people everywhere when I say our dream is to see the day when nuclear weapons will
be banished from the face of the earth.” Senator McCain added: “That is my dream too.”

 In September, President Obama – acknowledging Shultz, Perry, Kissinger and Nunn,
who were in the chamber — presided over a UN Security Council Summit, the first ever
chaired by a U.S. President. The Presidents of China, Russia and France, the Prime
Minister of Great Britain and all other members voted for a resolution “to create the
conditions for a world without nuclear weapons.”

 In September, at the UN General Assembly, the Four met with the foreign ministers of
key powers to discuss the vision and the steps of a world without nuclear weapons.

 In January of 2010, Nuclear Tipping Point, a documentary capturing the story of the
Four, premiered at Universal Studios in Los Angeles at a screening hosted by California
Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.

 In February of 2010, the Four traveled to Berlin to meet with their German counterparts –
former officials of very high rank who share the vision and agree on the steps toward world
free of nuclear weapons. The German side included former President Richard von Weiz-
sacker, former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, and former Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich
Genscher. German press, which covered the event heavily, noted the 590 years of life
experience assembled between these leaders and called it “historic.” Their trip included a
private meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel, German Foreign Minister Guido Wester-
welle and also a panel at the American Academy in Berlin on “Reducing Urgent Nuclear
Dangers.”
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 19
AUStralia
Malcolm Fraser, prime minister
Sir Gustav Nossal,
research scientist
Dr Barry Jones, Labor
­
government minister
General Peter Gration,
defence force chief
Lieutenant-General John
Sanderson, chief of the army
and former governor of Western
Australia
Associate Professor Tilman
Ruff, national president of
the Medical Association for
Prevention of War
Belgium
Willy Claes, minister of foreign
affairs, NATO secretary general
Jean-Luc Dehaene,
prime minister, member of the
European Parliament
Louis Michel, minister of foreign
affairs, member of European
Commission, member of the
European Parliament
Guy Verhofstadt, prime minister,
chairman Liberal Group in the
European Parliament 
Canada
Jean Chrétien,
prime minister
Joe Clark,
prime minister
Ed Broadbent, leader of the New
Democratic Party and member of
the Canadian Parliament
Lloyd Axworthy, minister of
foreign affairs
France
General Bernard Norlain,
commander of the French
Combat Air Force
Alain Richard,
minister of defense
Michel Rocard, prime minister
Alain Juppé, prime minister
Germany
Egon Bahr, federal minister
for special affairs
Hans-Dietrich Genscher,
foreign minister
Helmut Schmidt, chancellor
Dr. Richard von Weisäcker,
president
Italy
Massimo D’Alema, prime
minister
Gianfranco Fini, speaker of the
Italian Chamber of Deputies
Giorgio La Malfa, minister of
European affairs
Arturo Parisi, minister of defense
Professor Francesco Calogero,
secretary general of the Pugwash
Conference
The Netherlands
Ruud Lubbers, prime minister
Max van der Stoel,
minister of foreign affairs
Frits Korthals Altes,
minister of justice
Hans van Mierlo
minister of defense and
foreign affairs
Norway
Odvar Nordli, prime minister
Gro Harlem Brundtland,
prime minister
Kåre Willoch, prime minister
Kjell Magne Bondevik,
prime minister
Thorvald Stoltenberg,
foreign minister
Poland
Aleksander Kwasniewski,
president
Tadeusz Mazowiecki,
prime minister
Lech Walesa, president
Sweden
Ingvar Carlsson, prime minister
Hans Blix, minister for
foreign affairs
Karin Söder, minister for
foreign affairs
Rolf Ekéus, chairman of
the board of the Stockholm
International Peace Research
Institute
United Kingdom
Douglas Hurd, secretary of state
for foreign and commonwealth
affairs
Malcolm Rifkind, secretary
of state for defence and
secretary of state for foreign and
commonwealth affairs
George Robertson, secretary
of state for defence and NATO
secretary general
David Owen, secretary of state
for foreign and commonwealth
affairs
Endorsing the Vision
By April 2010, these former high-level officials from around the world joined together, across party lines, to publicly endorse the
vision by speaking out on the pages of the press. 
20 NTI
Strengthening
International
Institutions and
Support
U.S. Russian
Nonproliferation
Working Group
To support the continued
work of the NPWG by:
analyzing trends that
undermine strategic
stability, with specific atten-
tion to ways in which these
may exacerbate short
decision-time postures
and alert systems; actively
re-shaping the nuclear
enterprise; and advancing
analysis and debate about
the additional near-term
steps that the U.S. and
Russia could take to
significantly reduce nuclear
dangers.
Belfer Center for Science
and International Affairs,
John F. Kennedy School
of Government, Harvard
University,
Cambridge, MA, USA
$296,000
nuclear security
project
To help build consensus
for reversing reliance on
nuclear weapons globally
to prevent their spread
into potentially dangerous
hands, and ultimately
end them as a threat
to the world by closing
analytic gaps and building
momentum for action by
leaders and experts in key
countries around the world.
RUSI Partnership
To produce an analytic
study and host a working
group examining how
changes in the declaratory
policy of nuclear weapons
states will affect interna-
tional security and the role
of nuclear weapons, to
produce a report outlining
the various options for
NATO’s nuclear policy
looking to and beyond
the 2010 NATO Strategic
Concept, and to organize
a seminar on the role of
missile defense in debates
on multilateral nuclear
restraint.
Royal United Services
Institute
London, UK
$178,000
PRIF Partnership
To conduct studies on
transparency in nuclear
weapon states, enforce-
ment mechanisms for a
nuclear weapons free
world, FMCT verification,
and the stability of the NPT
regime. In addition, PRIF
advised the NSP in its
activities in Europe.
Peace Research Institute
Frankfurt
Frankfurt, Germany
$57,200
PIR Center
To promote dialogue
among Russia’s secu-
rity and nonproliferation
community on Russia’s
nuclear agenda and role in
arms control and disarma-
ment efforts. Activities
included workshops
bringing together U.S. and
Russian experts and publi-
cations in PIR’s journal,
Security Index, by U.S. and
Russian co-authors. PIR
also dedicated a section of
the organization’s website
to discussion about the
vision and the steps of a
nuclear weapon free world.
PIR Center
Moscow, Russia
$199,500
NPS Global Partnership
To engage governments in
the Latin American region
on nonproliferation and
disarmament issues and
raise awareness of nuclear
threats among Spanish-
and Portuguese-speaking
audiences. Activities include
production of research
papers and hosting regional
workshops on the role of
Latin America in promoting
a world free of nuclear
weapons and options for
balanced international
management of the nuclear
fuel cycle.
Nonproliferation for Global
Security Foundation
Buenos Aires, Argentina
$61,530
IPCS Partnership
To engage the strategic
community in India on
nuclear nonproliferation
and disarmament. Activities
include convening seminars,
conferences and discus-
sions targeting the strategic
community, legislators and
young scholars in India
and facilitating a track-two,
trilateral dialogue between
India, Pakistan and China
on nuclear disarmament and
a coordinated diplomatic
approach for Asian nuclear
threat reductions measures.
Institute for Peace and
Conflict Studies
New Delhi, India
$200,000
Expanding the
Nonproliferation
System
To develop a road map for
a revived nonproliferation
system that could integrate
India, and eventually the
other responsible non-NPT
parties. The project
includes creating a working
group of analysts from
the U.S. and India who
will meet several times
and produce a report or
options paper to be briefed
to governments in both the
U.S. and India and other
countries concerned about
nonproliferation.
Center for Strategic and
International Studies
Washington, DC, USA
$85,000
grants Approved in 2009 Nuclear
other grants
Doomsday Clock
Symposium
To support the Doomsday
Clock Symposium that
brings together Bulletin
experts to evaluate the
trends and prevailing
wisdom regarding the
state of global security,
summarizes the informa-
tion by setting the minute
hand on the clock and
outlines the agenda for
substantive discussion
about solutions that would
push back the hand of
the Clock. To help elevate
the Doomsday Clock as a
symbol of new awareness
and engagement that –
backed by sound scientific
assessments – can tip
public consciousness from
confusion and inertia about
disarmament to involve-
ment and determination
to act.
Bulletin of the Atomic
Scientists
Chicago, IL, USA
$50,000
NTI works in partnership with other organizations in
service of its projects. Grants to other organizations
in 2009 are captured below.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 21
“Revisiting Reykjavik:
Nuclear Weapons
Policies for the New
Century” Symposium
To support the production
of a one-day symposium
that will help to engage
the public in learning more
about nuclear weapons and
the threat that they pose
today.
Atomic Heritage
Foundation
Washington, DC, USA
$15,000
FCNL Education Fund
To support the efforts of the
fund to produce a weekly
email newsletter, Nuclear
Calendar, that covers
national and international
events concerning nuclear
weapons, disarmament
and nonproliferation. The
calendar serves to broaden
involvement in nuclear
weapons issues beyond the
small circle of Washington
policy analysts and govern-
ment officials, enables
citizens to participate
in federal government’s
decision-making process
and promotes attendance at
public policy events.
FCNL Education Fund
Washington, DC, USA
$15,000
22 NTI
Biological
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 23
The Nature of the Threat
Just as the threat from unsecured nuclear weapons and materials is at a
“tipping point,” the biological threat, in many ways, is even more precarious. In
December 2008 the bipartisan Commission for the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruc-
tion Proliferation and Terrorism concluded that unless the world community acts decisively
and with great urgency, it is more likely than not that a weapon of mass destruction will be
used in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world by the end of 2013 — and that threat was
more likely to be biological than nuclear.
As with the nuclear threat, prevention of a bioterror attack is paramount. Yet, preventing a
biological attack is more complex, involving more actors, more regions, less cost and easier
access to materials. The biothreat also is inextricably tied to the vast, positive opportunities
in biotechnology.
What’s more, critical elements of an effective response to bioterrorism involve detection,
diagnosis and immediate measures to treat and contain an outbreak after it has occurred.
The bottom line: Diseases don’t respect borders.
NTI’s Global Health and Security Initiative (GHSI) responds to the full spectrum of
biothreats, with activities focusing on best practices in the biological sciences and improving
detection, diagnosis and response, particularly in conflict-prone regions. Although NTI’s
work is rooted in security concerns, outcomes also improve capacity to respond to naturally
occurring disease, providing broader public health and development benefits.
In 2009 GHSI also expanded its regional disease surveillance networks and continued
collaboration with partners, including the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Rock-
efeller Foundation, to connect operational and nascent disease surveillance networks around
the globe.
This work is founded on the understanding that surveillance is a key step in rapid detec-
tion of a disease outbreak and response to biological threats, whether natural or manmade.
“Advances within
the life sciences
hold extraordinary
potential for
beneficial progress,
but they also can
empower those
who would use
biological agents for
ill purpose.
”
President Barack Obama,
November 23, 2009
Bill
Varie/CORBIS
24 NTI
The performance of health officials in one region could have a direct impact on the response
a continent away.
The WHO recognized the urgency of this issue and adopted a set of global rules to prevent
and respond to the international spread of disease to strengthen health security.
For individual countries to successfully meet this goal, they need increased capacity and
cooperation. What’s more, the uncertainties of emerging and reemerging diseases require
novel surveillance capabilities that promote collaboration across sectors and country borders.
Early identification and rapid response to disease outbreaks are crucial. 
GHSI directly supports the international health community to prevent, detect and respond
to biological threats. GHSI helped create regional partnerships in the Middle East and Southern
Africa and helped support the Mekong Basin network. Partnerships involve public health offi-
cials and experts from multiple countries collaborating to detect and respond more effectively
to infectious disease threats. They have created new mechanisms for data sharing. New lab
collaborations have improved capacity. Table-top exercises allow participants to test cross-
country cooperation.
Preparedness: The H1N1 Case Study
In 2009 WHO raised its Pandemic Preparedness level to Phase V for the H1N1 virus (signifying
“widespread human infection”). The Middle East Consortium for Infectious Disease Surveil-
lance (MECIDS) and the Mekong Basin Disease Surveillance (MBDS) networks already had
plans in place for pandemic influenza. MECIDS partners immediately activated lines of commu-
nication and implemented conference calls to share information and discuss the current status
of cases in Israel. They convened an emergency board meeting in Jerusalem, inviting WHO
and an Egyptian observer, as they refined joint plans for laboratory testing, public communica-
tions and screening travelers at borders and airports.
MBDS representatives — in China, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam — were also
prepared. Past national and regional tabletop simulation exercises on the threat of an avian influenza
(H5N1) pandemic meant action plans and lessons were in place for the 2009 influenza threat.
Expanding to Southern Africa
In late 2008 GHSI helped launch the Southern African Center for Infectious Disease Surveil-
lance (SACIDS), a consortium to enhance the region’s capacity for the detection, identi-
fication and monitoring of infectious diseases. Consortium members include medical and
veterinary institutions of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mozambique, South Africa,
Top experts gathered to improve and connect
disease surveillance networks.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 25
Tanzania and Zambia. In April 2009, the consortium held its first executive board meeting
and inception workshop in Tanzania. Members draw on experiences from the NTI-supported
networks in the Middle East, Southeast Asia and have created a structure and work plan for
future growth.
Connecting Health Organizations for Regional
Disease Surveillance (CHORDS)
The regional disease surveillance networks are models for the kind of transnational cooperation
that promote flexible and coordinated response to future pandemic and bioweapons threats.
By connecting the regional networks — those supported directly by NTI, along with others — a
true global network becomes possible, creating new levels of cooperation and security.
CHORDS is a platform for this global network, facilitating coordination and communica-
tion among regional infectious disease surveillance groups, WHO and other global partners to
strengthen international health security.
CHORDS makes possible the exchange of data and information that will allow networks to
build capacity and meet their commitments and develop core capabilities. In 2009, the vision
was further defined, and the organization was officially launched.
Meetings in 2009 included participants from NTI-supported networks in Southern Africa,
East Africa, the Middle East and the Mekong Basin. Participation via webcast and video from
representatives in Kenya, Thailand, the Palestinian Authority and the United Kingdom helped
expand the impact of the meetings.
In 2010, regional network members and health specialists from around the world have
already met to determine how to further strengthen global capacity for disease surveillance.
Peter G. Peterson Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation have provided generous
grants to help form CHORDS. In addition, Fondation Mérieux, based in Annecy, France,
provided its facilities and hosted the 2010 conference as an in-kind donation.
North Korea Tuberculosis Diagnostic Project
After famines plagued North Korea in the 1990s, the country witnessed a resurgence of tuber-
culosis. The disease is surging in North Korea, and an unchecked epidemic would pose a
direct threat to China and other neighbors. An unprecedented collaboration between American
tuberculosis experts and doctors from the Ministry of Public Health in the Democratic Peoples
Republic of Korea has developed North Korea’s first laboratory for diagnosis of drug-resistant
tuberculosis.
Peter G. Peterson, through his family
foundation, supports NTI's work on
biosecurity and the nuclear threat.
26 NTI
The project was launched in 2008 by members of the Stanford-led Bay Area TB Consor-
tium, a group of medical professionals; Christian Friends of North Korea, a humanitarian group
which has been operating in North Korea for 15 years; and NTI’s GHSI.
In 2009 a technical laboratory team delivered and installed equipment and supplies at the
Pyongyang TB Hospital laboratory. The team also conducted workshops in cooperation with
scientists and doctors from North Korea’s Ministry of Public Health. The donated equipment
and supplies have enabled drug susceptibility testing services for tuberculosis patients and fill
a critical gap in North Korea’s TB control program. When the lab facility is completed in the
capital of Pyongyang, it will give North Korea effective tools to diagnose TB, including drug-
resistant forms of the disease.
Biosecurity in the Middle East
NTI supports the International Council for the Life Sciences (ICLS) which works to enhance
biological security and reduce biological weapons proliferation risks. ICLS brings together
global experts in the life sciences to identify critical biological risks to public safety and secu-
rity and to ensure that the extraordinary advances in biotechnology benefit, rather than harm,
society.
In 2009 ICLS and the Moroccan Ministry of Education, Higher Education, Training and
Scientific Research co-hosted the Biosafety and Biosecurity International Conference. More
than 100 experts in biosafety and biosecurity from 25 countries attended. The conference was
sponsored by the Environment Agency of Abu Dhabi and the Royal Scientific Society of Jordan
and built upon the work of the group’s very successful conference held in Abu Dhabi in 2007.
Participants discussed the development of biosafety and biosecurity strategies in the
Middle East/North Africa region, the creation of regional training centers, and a possible
biosafety association for regional professionals in the biotechnology sector.
“With the
emergence of drug
resistant forms of
TB, international
cooperation is
essential, and the
work in North
Korea is vital to
reduce biological
risks and advance
health security.
”
Former Senator Sam Nunn
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 27
Strengthening
Global Disease
Surveillance
Middle East Consortium
on Infectious Disease
Surveillance
To improve regional
capacity for infectious
disease surveillance in the
Middle East by developing
a shared food-borne and
water-borne disease
surveillance system among
Israel, the Palestinian
Authority and Jordan, and
by designing an infectious
disease epidemiology
course to build regional
rapid response capabili-
ties in the event of disease
outbreaks. Funding
is divided among the
following organizations:
$362,175
Cooperative Monitoring
Center, Amman	
Search for Common
Ground
Al-Quds University	
Jordanian Ministry of
Health		
Tel Aviv University	
	
Enhancing the
Mekong Basin Disease
Surveillance Network
(MBDS)
To strengthen national
and sub-regional disease
surveillance capacity in
the Mekong Basin area
(Cambodia, China, Laos,
Myanmar, Thailand and
Vietnam) by developing
human resource and
laboratory capacity within
the region to respond
quickly to infectious
disease, creating equity
in the national capacities
to detect and respond to
outbreaks, and preventing
international health
emergencies.
Mekong Disease
Surveillance Network	
$209,400
University of Edinburgh	
$145,000
World Health Organization	
$213,254
National Avian and Human
Influenza Coordination
Office			
$88,600
SE Asia Field
Epidemiology &
Technology Network		
$130,150
International Society for
Infectious Diseases
$82,489
Control of Drug
Resistant Tuberculosis
in North Korea
To develop a professional
exchange with health
specialists in North Korea
and build laboratory
and human capacity for
control of drug resistant
tuberculosis.
Stanford University School
of Medicine	
$230,000
Southern African Centre
for Infectious Disease
Surveillance
To assist in the develop-
ment of a consortium that
enhances the Southern
Africa region’s capacity for
the detection, identification
and monitoring of infec-
tious diseases through
the formation of the
Southern African Centre
for Infectious Disease
Surveillance (SACIDS).
The consortium members
include academic and
research medical and
veterinary institutions of
the Democratic Republic
of Congo, Mozambique,
Tanzania, South Africa and
Zambia.
Sokoine University of
Agriculture		
$342,500
International Council
for the Life Sciences
To support and sustain an
organization to promote
best practices and stan-
dards for biosafety and
biosecurity among the Life
Sciences Community to
reduce the potential for
accidents, or the inten-
tional misuse of dangerous
pathogens or technical
information.
International Council for
the Life Sciences
$250,000
grants Approved in 2009 Biological
NTI works in partnership with other organizations in
service of its projects. Grants to other organizations
in 2009 are captured below.
28 NTI
Chemical
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 29
alloy
photography
/
veer
Even minute quantities of agents such as mustard gas, VX and sarin can
sicken and kill and could be a very potent terrorist weapon against civilians. Used extensively
in World War I and by Saddam Hussein during the Iran-Iraq War of the 1980s, chemical
weapons have met widespread international condemnation.
But with more than 6,000 commercial chemical facilities that use, produce or store toxic
materials, chemical weapons remain a global threat. Many of these facilities are located near
densely populated areas and could be vulnerable to a terrorist attack.
Inadequately secured chemical weapons stockpiles and commercial facilities are a weak
link in the chain of global security, and one that could readily be exploited by terrorists — with
deadly results. For that reason, securing and dismantling chemical weapons and securing or
redirecting production facilities are essential.
In 2009, NTI did not engage in activities related to reducing threats related to chemical
weapons but has sponsored projects in the past related to securing and destroying chemical
weapons stockpiles, especially in Russia.
NTI supported the construction of a facility designed to destroy chemical weapons in
Shchuch’ye, Russia, which opened in early 2009. The Siberian plant will eliminate many of
Russia’s most lethal and proliferation-prone chemical weapons, approximately 1.9 million artil-
lery shells filled with the nerve agents sarin, soman and VX. Following operational testing and
certification, weapons destruction began in April 2009.
Part of the facility, a railway completed in September 2008, safely transports chemical
munitions from storage in Planovy to the destruction facility. The Government of Canada funded
the rail line construction and NTI contributed $1 million toward the effort. The U.S. Department
of Defense, through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, provided most of
the funding to build the Shchuch’ye facility, at a cost of approximately $1 billion.
“The opening of the
Shchuch’ye site
was an important
development in
2009 because it
will accelerate
the destruction
of millions of
dangerous and
obsolete chemical
weapons.
”
Daryl Kimball, executive director,
Arms Control Association
The Nature of the Threat
30 NTI
Public Education
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 31
With the levers of change on these issues almost entirely in the hands of government,
NTI’s communications mission is to focus on outreach and education and convince others to
take action. The goal, ultimately, is to persuade governments to take more urgent, aggressive
steps to reduce and eliminate the threats from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons.
A concerned, informed, attentive public can be a powerful force, so public outreach and
education are a crucial part of NTI’s mission. NTI gathers facts, analyzes threats, addresses
the barriers to change and proposes new policies. Communications activities shine a spot-
light on the gap between the threat and the response, show what should be done to close the
gaps and catalyze action to reduce the threats.
NTI’s communications activities aim to:

 Increase the quality and accessibility of information about the threats from nuclear,
biological and chemical weapons and show what must be done to reduce the threats

 Help develop new thinking and new expertise to reduce the risk and prevent the spread
of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons

 Promote dialogue and common-ground solutions to reduce imminent global dangers

 Educate beyond the small group of policymakers and issue experts and into the main-
stream public debate.
Nuclear Tipping Point
When governments seem to understand the threats but move too slowly, one option is to
make the dangers more vivid and the solutions more clear.
That’s why NTI has produced two films on the nuclear threat. The first film, a docudrama
called Last Best Chance, was released in 2005. It is still available at LastBestChance.org. In
2009 NTI developed a second film, a documentary called Nuclear Tipping Point.
When governments
seem to understand
the threats but move
too slowly, one
option is to make the
dangers more vivid
and the solutions
more clear.
Raising Awareness
32 NTI
Nuclear Tipping Point is a conversation with four men intimately involved in American diplo-
macy and national security over the last four decades. Former Secretaries of State George
Shultz and Henry Kissinger, former Secretary of Defense Bill Perry and former Senator Sam
Nunn share the personal experiences that led them to write three Wall Street Journal op-eds,
in support of a world free of nuclear weapons and the steps needed to get there. Nuclear
Tipping Point extends the argument, and the film’s subjects make a stark argument for change.
The film is introduced by General Colin Powell, narrated by Michael Douglas and includes
interviews with California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and former Soviet President
Mikhail Gorbachev. Nuclear Tipping Point was written and directed by Ben Goddard.
The film had its public premiere in January 2010 at Universal Studios in Los Angeles at a
screening hosted by Governor Schwarzenegger.
On April 6, one day before he was to fly to Prague to sign the New START Treaty with
Russia, President Obama hosted a White House screening of Nuclear Tipping Point with
Shultz, Perry, Kissinger and Nunn in attendance, along with Powell, Douglas, NTI Co-Chairman
Ted Turner, the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of
Energy and other key Administration officials and members of Congress.
To order a free DVD of Nuclear Tipping Point, visit nucleartippingpoint.org.
NTI Online
NTI hosts a family of websites with essential educational and research tools for understanding
WMD global threats and how they can be reduced or eliminated. NTI works with The National
Journal Group, the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute and others to
generate authoritative information useful to experts, journalists, policymakers and those new
to the subjects.
The family of sites includes nti.org, a robust site with news and resources, updated daily.
It features Global Security Newswire, a free, independent, daily news service covering world-
wide developments in nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, terrorism and related issues
written by the National Journal Group.
NTI also maintains a website for the Nuclear Security Project (nuclearsecurityproject.
org), and websites for the films it has produced, with information on screenings, press coverage,
ordering information and organizing local events. NTI recently created a profile on Facebook, the
global social networking site, where people can get updates on NTI activities. Through this
online presence, millions of people from more than 150 countries interact with NTI.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 33
The World is Watching Nuclear Tipping Point
Since the launch of the documentary Nuclear Tipping Point, screenings have been
held nationwide, including in Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, San Francisco, Wash-
ington and Boston. Internationally, screenings have been held in Israel, France, Japan
and Argentina. Fifty thousand DVDs have been distributed — almost half through
www.nucleartippingpoint.org. Here’s what the media says:

 “It’s a scary movie, befitting a scary notion: What if crazed, suicidal zealots got their
hands on a ‘loose nuke’…How would a nation retaliate against terrorists with, as
Nunn puts it, ‘no return address’ — or protect itself from modern day kamikazes who,
by definition, are undeterrable?” 			 — lloyd grove, The Daily Beast

 “The most effective part of the film, and its purpose, are a series of simple interviews
against a black backdrop in front of the camera with the four men, all deeply involved
in nuclear-weapons policy and arms control…These are the words of men who lived
with the Cold War that began in Oppenheimer's day. Today, they are all in the twilight
of their careers, no longer in public office. …For now, they are sober and realistic in
talking about the future, and we ought to listen to them carefully.”
— david hoffman, ForeignPolicy.com

 “In the realm of nuclear menace, the world is no longer playing by the rules (such as
they were) of the Cold War. And if anybody understands that better than a group of
veteran Cold Warriors, we haven’t yet heard from them.”
— dusty nix, Columbus Ledger-Enquirer (Georgia)

 “What the documentary does best is convey a sense of urgency — the difference, as
Nunn says, between cooperation and catastrophe. Although the calls for nonprolif-
eration and the goal of no nukes have gained bipartisan support, the endorsement
of President Obama, and the backing of the UN Security Council, what the docu-
mentary calls for is something akin to the No Nukes atmosphere of the 1980s, when
Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev nearly agreed to eliminate their stockpiles.”
— ted johnson, Variety

 “Sounds like a great date movie.” 		 — stephen colbert, The Colbert Report
[top] Senator Nunn appeared on
The Colbert Report to discuss Nuclear
Tipping Point
Map from the Nuclear Tipping Point
website
34 NTI
Securing the Bomb
In 2001, when U.S. and Russian efforts to secure nuclear weapons and material began to slow,
NTI commissioned the first of a series of reports focusing on progress in locking down nuclear
materials. The annual updates – now numbering eight in all – have won readership among
journalists and policy experts, triggered legislation in Congress and helped frame the debate
for political candidates. The reports, Securing the Bomb, are researched and written under the
leadership of Dr. Matthew Bunn at the Project on Managing the Atom of Harvard University’s
Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.
The 2010 report, released on the eve of President Obama’s April 2010 Nuclear Security
Summit, said that a faster, broader global effort will be needed to meet the goal President
Obama set in Prague to “secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four
years.” It also highlighted impressive progress: The United States has helped remove all HEU
from nearly 50 facilities around the world, and 19 countries have removed all weapons-usable
nuclear material from their soil.
Still, the report cited 18 documented cases of theft or loss of plutonium or HEU, and urged
all countries to adopt clear and well-enforced rules on nuclear security that protect against a
robust set of threats.
The report called for a greater sense of urgency, continuous engagement from global lead-
ership, and clear metrics that give focus and traction to the global project, concluding:

 The U.S. and other countries should hold joint threat briefings, nuclear terrorism exercises
and tests against insider and outsider threats to convince partners that nuclear terrorism
is a real and urgent threat to each country’s security.

 Countries should create mechanisms to hold themselves accountable, including estab-
lishing a baseline for the four-year effort, and each country should designate one official
to be responsible for their state’s efforts and to confer with officials from other countries.
Nunn said: “This report shows significant progress, but spells out clearly the required
imperatives of a global effort. It makes clear that we need worldwide understanding of the
threat, the scope and urgency of the essential work, as well as clear goals and accountability
for progress.”
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 35
Online Research Center
and Library
To build, expand and
update a comprehensive
online research library
with information, analysis
and educational materials
about the threats from
nuclear, biological and
chemical weapons. The
library builds on the most
comprehensive open-
source nonproliferation
databases in the world and
brings together a range of
expert opinion and analysis
on these issues.
Monterey Institute of
International Studies
Center for Nonproliferation
Studies
Monterey, CA, USA
$639,000
grants Approved in 2009 Communications and education
NTI works in partnership with other organizations in
service of its projects. Grants to other organizations
in 2009 are captured below.
36 NTI
Not shown: Senator Pete Domenici, HRH Prince El Hassan Bin Talal, Pierre Lellouche,
Senator Richard Lugar, Judge Hisashi Owada and Secretary William Perry
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 37
Board of Directors
Ted Turner
Throughout his career, Ted Turner has received
recognition for his entrepreneurial acumen, sharp
business skills, leadership qualities and his unprec-
edented philanthropy.
Whether in billboard advertisement, cable tele-
vision, sports team ownership, sailing, environmen-
tal initiatives or philanthropy – Turner’s vision, determination, generos-
ity and forthrightness have consistently given the world reason to take
notice.
Turner is co-chairman of NTI, a charitable organization working to
reduce the global threats from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons;
chairman of the Turner Foundation, Inc., which supports efforts for
improving air and water quality, developing a sustainable energy future to
protect the earth’s climate, safeguarding environmental health, maintain-
ing wildlife habitat protection and developing practices and policies to
curb population growth rates; chairman of the United Nations Founda-
tion, which promotes a more peaceful, prosperous and just world; and
a partner in the Ted's Montana Grill restaurant chain, which operates in
more than 55 locations nationwide.
Turner is also chairman of Turner Enterprises, Inc., a private company,
which manages his business interests, land holdings and investments,
including the oversight of two million acres in 12 states and in Argentina,
and more than 50,000 bison head.
Senator SAM Nunn
Former U.S. Senator Sam Nunn is co-chairman and
chief executive officer of NTI. He served as a U.S.
Senator from Georgia for 24 years, from 1972 to
1996.
Nunn attended Georgia Tech, Emory University
and Emory Law School, where he graduated with
honors in 1962. After active duty service in the U.S. Coast Guard, he
served six years in the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve. He first entered politics
as a member of the Georgia House of Representatives in 1968.
During his tenure in the U.S. Senate, Nunn served as chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee and the Permanent Subcommittee
on Investigations. He also served on the Intelligence and Small Business
Committees. His legislative achievements include the landmark Depart-
ment of Defense Reorganization Act, drafted with the late Senator Barry
Goldwater, and the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program,
which provides assistance to Russia and the former Soviet republics for
securing and destroying their excess nuclear, biological and chemical
weapons.
In addition to his work with NTI, Nunn has continued his service in
the public policy arena as a distinguished professor in the Sam Nunn
School of International Affairs at Georgia Tech and as chairman of the
board of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washing-
ton, DC.
38 NTI
Joan Rohlfing
Joan Rohlfing became president and chief operat-
ing officer of NTI in January 2010, after serving
nine years as NTI's senior vice president for pro-
grams and operations. She joined NTI in 2001
after holding a number of senior positions with the
U.S. Department of Energy. She served as senior
advisor for national security to the secretary of energy and director of the
Office of Nonproliferation and National Security. She took a nine-month
assignment in New Delhi, India, in the wake of nuclear tests in South
Asia, to advise the U.S. Ambassador on nuclear security issues.
Rohlfing also served on the professional staff of the U.S. House
Armed Services Committee and at the U.S. Department of Defense. She
began her national security career as a Presidential Management Intern
in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, during which she also served
in assignments with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the State Department.
Rohlfing was awarded the Council on Foreign Relations International
Affairs Fellowship in1993 and the Department of Defense Civilian Meri-
torious Service Medal in 1989.
Charles B. Curtis
Charles B. Curtis is president emeritus of NTI and
senior adviser to the Center for Strategic and Inter-
national Studies.
Before his nine years of service at NTI, Curtis
served as the executive vice president and chief
operating officer of the United Nations Foundation
and was a partner in Hogan & Hartson, a Washington DC based law firm
with domestic and international offices.
Curtis served as under secretary and, later, as deputy secretary of
the U.S. Department of Energy from February 1994 to May 1997. He
was chief operating officer of the Department and among other duties,
had direct programmatic responsibility for all of the Department’s energy,
science, technology and national security programs.
Curtis is a lawyer with more than 15 years’ practice experience and
more than 18 years in government service. He was a founding partner of
the Washington law firm Van Ness Feldman. Curtis served as chairman of
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission from 1977 to 1981 and has
held positions on the staff of the U.S. House of Representatives, the U.S.
Treasury Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission. He
is a current member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 39
Senator Pete Domenici
Former Senator Pete V. Domenici is a senior fellow
at the Bipartisan Policy Center. He served as a
United States Senator from New Mexico longer
than any other person (1973 to 2009). During his
36 years in the Senate, Domenici served as chair-
man and ranking minority member of the Senate
Budget Committee and the Appropriations Subcommittee of Energy and
Water Development. In addition, he served as chairman and ranking minor-
ity member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
As chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee and the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations
Subcommittee, he promoted legislation to bolster U.S. efforts to prevent
the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the components to build such
weapons. He worked in support of the evolving mission of the U.S.
national laboratories and other high-technology research facilities.
Domenici supports greater U.S. energy independence, encouraging
the development of the domestic oil and natural gas industries, while
calling for a reduction in the country's reliance on foreign sources of
energy. He has led national efforts to assure that nuclear energy, which
now provides over one-fifth of our nation's electricity, remains a strong
option for clean, reliable production.
DR. Alexei aRBATOV
Alexei Arbatov is one of Russia’s most important
scholars and intellectual leaders in the fields of
international relations and international security. He
is the head of the Center for International Security
of the Institute of World Economy and International
Relations of the Russian Academy of Sciences and
is chair of the Nonproliferation Program of the Carnegie Moscow Center.
Arbatov has played a leading role in the politics of post-Soviet Russia,
as a member of the Soviet delegation at START-1 negotiations, a member
of the Russian Parliament (Duma) from 1994 to 2003 and as vice chair-
man of the liberal YABLOKO Party from 2001 to the present. While in
Parliament, he was deputy chairman of the Duma Defense Committee.
The author of numerous books and articles on global security, disar-
mament and Russian military reform, Arbatov is a member of the Inter-
national Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament and
the Weapons of Mass Destruction Commission; the vice-president of the
Luxembourg Forum; a member of the Governing Board of the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), the international advisory
board of the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces
(DCAF), and the board of the Center for Nonproliferation Studies of the
Monterey Institute of International Studies.
40 NTI
SUSan Eisenhower
Susan Eisenhower serves as president of the
Eisenhower Group, Inc., which provides strate-
gic counsel on political and business projects.
Eisenhower was a founding director and the first
president of the Eisenhower Institute, where she
became known for her work in the former Soviet
Union and in the energy field. She is currently the Eisenhower Institute’s
chairman of leadership and public policy programs.
Eisenhower has consulted for major corporations and has served on
many government task forces, including the NASA Advisory Council, the
Department of Energy’s Baker-Cutler Commission on U.S.-funded nuclear
nonproliferation programs in Russia, and the National Academy of Sci-
ences' standing Committee on International Security and Arms Control.
She is currently a member of the Secretary of Energy’s Task Force on
Nuclear Energy. Eisenhower has authored three books, two of which,
Breaking Free and Mrs. Ike, appeared on regional bestseller lists. She
has also edited four collected volumes on regional security issues, most
recently Partners in Space: U.S.-Russian Cooperation after the Cold War.
Eisenhower has been a fellow at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School
of Government's Institute of Politics and a distinguished fellow at the
Nixon Center. She currently sits on the board of the Energy Future Coali-
tion and is an advisor to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Institute for
21st Century Energy and the Air Force Academy's Eisenhower Center
for Space and Defense Studies.
She serves as a regular commentator on television and has pro-
vided analysis for CNN, MSNBC, Fox News, PBS, the BBC and all three
network morning programs.
Ambassador Rolf EkéUS
Ambassador Rolf Ekéus is chairman of the board of
the Stockholm International Peace Research Insti-
tute. From 2001 to 2007, he served as high com-
missioner on national minorities for the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe. He has held
a number of diplomatic posts, including Swedish
ambassador to the United States from 1997 to 2000 and head of the
United Nations Special Commission on Iraq (UNSCOM).
Ekéus has spent the last two decades working on international non-
proliferation issues. From 1991 to 1997, he served as executive chair-
man of the United Nations Special Commission on Iraq. In that post, he
was responsible for work to eliminate the Iraqi infrastructure for nuclear
and other weapons of mass destruction.
He served as ambassador and head of the Swedish delegation to the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and as permanent
representative of Sweden to the Conference on Disarmament (1983 to
1989) and as chairman of the international negotiations on the Chem-
ical Weapons Convention. He is a member of the board of the Inter-
national Commission on Missing Persons. He also serves as chairman
of the Swedish Pugwash Network. He was a member of the Advisory
Board on Disarmament of the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
the Canberra Commission on Nuclear Weapons and the Tokyo Forum on
Disarmament.
His work in this field was recognized with the Wateler Peace Prize
from the Carnegie Foundation in 1997.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 41
HRH PRINCE EL HASSAN BIN TALAL
A pluralist, believing in consensus and respect for
the others, His Royal Highness Prince El Hassan
bin Talal, believes in societies in which all people
can live, work and function in freedom and with
dignity. His Royal Highness has initiated, founded
and is actively involved in a number of Jordanian
and international institutes and committees. In 1983, he co-chaired the
Independent Commission on International Humanitarian Issues (ICIHI)
calling for a New International Humanitarian Order. In addition to his
work with NTI, he recently served as a member of the Commission on
Legal Empowerment of the Poor and chairs the Integrity Council for
the Global Commons. The West Asia-North Africa Forum recently initi-
ated by Prince Hassan, held its inaugural meeting in April of 2008. He
is president and patron of the Arab Thought Forum, chairman of the
Higher Council for Science and Technology, the Royal Scientific Society
and the Royal Institute for Inter-Faith Studies. Prince Hassan is the
author of nine books.
General Eugene E. Habiger
General Eugene E. Habiger (U.S. Air Force,
Retired) has more than 35 years of experience
in national security and nuclear operations. In his
previous assignment as the commander in chief of
United States Strategic Command, he was respon-
sible for all U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy strate-
gic nuclear forces supporting the national security strategy of strategic
deterrence. In this position, he established an unprecedented military-
to-military relationship with his Russian counterparts, which resulted in
extraordinary confidence building and openness. This initiative was the
centerpiece of a 60 Minutes II segment in February 2000 and a CNN
special in October 2000.
Habiger is a distinguished fellow and policy adviser with the Uni-
versity of Georgia’s Center for International Trade and Security, where
he assists with the Center’s international programs aimed at preventing
weapons proliferation and reducing nuclear dangers.
Prior to joining the Center, Habiger was the president/CEO of the
San Antonio Water System, where he was responsible for the general
operations of the System, along with the strategic long-range business
and water resources planning for the ninth largest city in the United
States.
He also worked as the Department of Energy’s director of security
and emergency operations. As the Department’s “security czar,” he was
charged by the energy secretary with changing the security culture at the
Energy Department and establishing a program to reenergize and restore
confidence in the Department’s security program.
He is a command pilot with more than 5,000 flying hours, primarily
in bomber aircraft. During the Vietnam War, he flew 150 combat mis-
sions. He is also the chairman of the board of the Armed Services YMCA,
serves on the Fisher House Foundation of San Antonio and is a senior
fellow with the Gorbachev Foundation.
42 NTI
IGOR S. IVANOV
Igor S. Ivanov is a professor at Moscow State Insti-
tute for International Relations. Previously, he served
as minister of foreign affairs, from 1998 to 2004,
and secretary of the Security Council of the Russian
Federation from 2004 to 2007. Ivanov holds the
rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipoten-
tiary. He took part in the work of several U.N. General Assembly sessions,
many international conferences, and in particular, co-chaired the Bosnia
settlement talks in Dayton, Ohio. From 1991 to 1993, he represented the
USSR and then Russia as ambassador to Spain.
Ivanov also worked as a researcher at the Institute of World Economy
and International Relations, USSR Academy of Sciences. He has a Ph.D.
in history. He has published a number of books and articles on the history
of Russian foreign affairs and foreign policy, which have been translated
into many languages. He regularly attends political and scientific gath-
erings both in Russia and globally to speak on the most topical inter-
national issues. Ivanov has been honored with numerous Russian and
foreign orders.
PIERRE LELLOUCHE
Pierre Lellouche has been a practicing attorney in
Paris and a member of the French National Assem-
bly since 1993. He served as President of the
NATO Parliamentary Assembly (2004-2006) and
as the National Secretary of his party (in charge of
Defense), the Union Mouvement Populaire (UMP).
He was in charge of the Defense and Foreign Policy Platform of
Nicolas Sarkozy during the French presidential campaign of 2006 to
2007. He is currently President Sarkozy’s secretary of state for European
affairs.
From 1989 to 1995, he was diplomatic advisor to French President
Jacques Chirac, and he has held a number of positions in his party on
foreign affairs and defense issues. Previously, Lellouche was deputy direc-
tor of the French Institute for International Affairs, an organization which
he co-founded. He has taught and published widely on political-military
affairs, including serving as a columnist for Le Point and Newsweek.
He is a vice chairman of the Atlantic Partnership and served as a
member of the Trilateral Commission and the Council of the International
Institute for Strategic Studies. Lellouche also serves as a member of the
board of directors of the Foundation du Futur, and as a member of the
editorial board of the European Journal of International Affairs and the
Journal of Arms Control and Security Studies.
He is the author of several books including: La France et l’OTAN
— de la Guerre Froide à la Guerre d’Afghanistan (2009), Illusions Gaulo-
ises (2006), Le Nouveau Monde (1992), La Republique Immobile (1998)
and La France et les Bombes (2000). He was educated in Paris and at
Harvard Law School, where he earned masters and doctorate degrees.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 43
Dr. Jessica Tuchman Mathews
Dr. Jessica Tuchman Mathews is president of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, an
international research organization with offices
in Washington, DC, Moscow, Beijing, Beirut and
Brussels. Mathews, who holds a Ph.D. in molecu-
lar biology, has held positions in the executive and
legislative branches, in management and research in the nonprofit arena
and in journalism.
She was a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations from
1993 to 1997 and served as director of the Council’s Washington
program. During that time her Foreign Affairs article, “Power Shift,” was
chosen by the editors as one of the most influential in the journal’s 75
years. From 1982 to 1993, Mathews was founding vice president and
director of research of the World Resources Institute, an internationally
known center for policy research on environmental and natural resource
management issues.
She served on the editorial board of The Washington Post from 1980
to 1982, covering energy, environment, science, technology, health and
arms control issues. Later, she became a weekly columnist for The Wash-
ington Post.
From 1977 to 1979, she was the director of the Office of Global
Issues of the National Security Council, covering nuclear proliferation,
conventional arms sales policy, chemical and biological warfare and
human rights. In 1993, she returned to government as deputy to the
under secretary of state for global affairs.
Senator Richard G. Lugar
U.S. Senator Richard G. Lugar (R-Indiana) is the
ranking Republican of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee and a well-known leader in international
security issues. A proponent of free trade and eco-
nomic growth, Lugar was first elected to the U.S.
Senate in 1976 and won a sixth term in 2006 with
87 percent of the vote.
Lugar has been instrumental in Senate ratification of treaties that
reduce the world’s use, production and stockpiling of nuclear, chemical
and biological weapons.
In 1991, he forged a bipartisan partnership with then-Senate Armed
Services Chairman Sam Nunn to create a cooperative program to destroy
weapons of mass destruction in the former Soviet Union. To date, the
Nunn-Lugar program has deactivated more than 7,500 nuclear warheads
that were once aimed at the United States.
As chairman of the Agriculture Committee, Lugar built bipartisan
support for 1996 federal farm program reforms, ending 1930’s era
federal production controls. He initiated a biofuels research program
to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil and led initiatives to
streamline the U.S. Department of Agriculture, reform the food stamp
program and preserve the federal school lunch program.
Combining his experiences on the Foreign Relations and Agriculture
Committees and recognizing that energy security impacts every aspect
of life in the United States, from the cars we drive and how much we pay
at the gas pump to vulnerability to foreign terrorism and relationships
with other countries, he has launched the Lugar Energy Initiative.
Lugar has received numerous awards and 41 honorary degrees. In
2006, Time magazine listed Lugar as one of the top 10 Senators. He
manages his family’s 604-acre Marion County corn, soybean and tree
farm. Before entering public life, he helped run the family’s food machin-
ery manufacturing business in Indianapolis.
44 NTI
Dr. Nafis Sadik
Dr. Nafis Sadik is special advisor to the UN Sec-
retary-General since 2001 and special envoy for
HIV/AIDS in Asia and Pacific. She is a strong
advocate and has consistently called attention
to the importance of addressing gender, popula-
tion and development issues and, particularly, the
inclusion of women in decision-making and carrying out of development
policy. From April 1987 to December 2000, Sadik served as executive
director of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), with the rank
of under-secretary general. She was the first woman to head a major UN
voluntarily funded program.
Sadik came to the United Nations after a distinguished career in
Pakistan, where she served as director-general of the Central Family
Planning Council. Since beginning her career as a physician in 1954,
Sadik has taken on a number of increasingly challenging leadership roles
in the family planning field. She first served as a civilian medical officer
in charge of women's and children's wards in various Pakistani armed
forces hospitals before directing hospitals and eventually heading the
Planning and Training Division, the government agency charged with
national family planning program.
Sadik was educated at Loreto College, Calcutta, India; received a
doctor of medicine degree from Dow Medical College, Karachi, Pakistan;
and completed further studies at Johns Hopkins University. She is the
recipient of numerous international awards and honors, most notably, the
2001 United Nations Population Award for her contribution to popula-
tion issues and improving the health of women and children of the global
community.
Dr. William Perry
William J. Perry, a senior fellow at the Freeman
Spogli Institute for International Studies, is the
Michael and Barbara Berberian Professor at Stan-
ford University. He is co-director of the Preventive
Defense Project, also at Stanford University. His
previous academic experience includes professor
(halftime) at Stanford from 1988 to 1993, when he was the co-director
of the Center for International Security and Arms Control. He also served
as a part-time lecturer in the Department of Mathematics at Santa Clara
University from 1971 to 1977.
Perry was the 19th United States secretary of defense, serving from
February 1994 to January 1997. His previous government experience
was as deputy secretary of defense (1993 to 1994) and undersecretary
of defense for research and engineering (1977 to 1981).
His business experience includes serving as a laboratory director for
General Telephone and Electronics (1954 to 1964); founding and serving
as the president of ESL (1964 to 1977); executive vice-president of Ham-
brecht & Quist (1981 to 1985); and founding and serving as the chairman
of Technology Strategies and Alliances (1985 to 1993). He is on the
board of directors of LGS Bell Labs Innovations and several emerging
high-tech companies and is chairman of Global Technology Partners.
Perry received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from Stanford University and
his Ph.D. from Pennsylvania State University, all in mathematics. He is a
member of the National Academy of Engineering and a fellow of the Ameri-
can Academy of Arts and Sciences. From 1946 to 1947, Perry was an
enlisted man in the Army Corps of Engineers and served in the Army of
Occupation in Japan. He joined the Reserve Officer Training Corps in 1948
and was a second lieutenant in the Army Reserve from 1950 to 1955.
He has received numerous awards and decorations from U.S. and
foreign governments, nongovernmental organizations and the military,
including the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1997.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 45
RONALD L. OLSON
Ronald L. Olson is a partner in the Los Angeles
office of Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP. Olson has
practiced law with the firm since 1968. Olson also
is a director of Berkshire Hathaway, Edison Inter-
national, City National Corporation, The Washing-
ton Post Company and Western Asset Trusts. He
serves as a director of several non-profits, including the RAND Corpora-
tion (formerly chair), the Mayo Clinic, the Council on Foreign Relations
and the California Institute of Technology. Olson’s practice involves a
combination of litigation and corporate counseling. He counsels individ-
ual executives and boards of directors in a range of matters, including
transaction and corporate governance issues.
Olson received his B.S. degree from Drake University in 1963, his
J.D. from the University of Michigan in 1966, and a Diploma in Law from
Oxford University, England, in 1967, at which time he was the recipient of
a Ford Foundation fellowship.
Olson has received a number of awards for public service and for
public service and pro bono activities
Judge Hisashi Owada
Judge Hisashi Owada is currently the president of
the International Court of Justice, The Hague. He
was appointed as judge of the court in early 2003
and has been president since 2009.
Before being appointed to the court, Owada
served as president of the Japan Institute of Inter-
national Affairs, and professor of law and organization at the Waseda
University Graduate School in Japan. He also served as advisor to the
minister for foreign affairs of Japan and senior advisor to the president
of the World Bank.
Owada previously served as vice minister for foreign affairs of Japan,
permanent representative of Japan to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development in Paris, and as permanent representative
of Japan to the United Nations in New York.
In the academic field as a professor of international law and organi-
zation, Owada has taught at Tokyo University since 1963, and at the law
schools of Harvard University, Columbia University and New York Uni-
versity. He is a member of the Institut de Droit International and currently
professor at Leiden University. Owada is the author of numerous writings
on international, legal and political affairs.
46 NTI
PrOFESSOR Amartya Sen
Amartya Sen is a world-renowned economist,
scholar, philosopher and author. He has done
groundbreaking research in a number of areas,
including social choice theory, political and moral
philosophy and decision theory. Awarded the
“Bharat Ratna,” the highest honor given by the
president of India, Sen’s work in economics has also been recognized
with a Nobel Prize. He has been president of the American Economic
Association, the Indian Economic Association, the International Eco-
nomic Association and the Econometric Society.
Sen is Lamont University Professor and professor of economics and
philosophy at Harvard University. Until recently, he was master of Trinity
College, Cambridge. Earlier, he was the Drummond professor of political
economy at Oxford University and a fellow of All Souls College. Prior
to that, he was professor of economics at Delhi University and at the
London School of Economics.
Sen has researched and written books in a number of wide-ranging
fields, including economics, philosophy, decision theory and social choice
theory. His work has covered welfare economics, theory of measurement,
development economics, moral and political philosophy and the econom-
ics of peace and war. Sen’s books, which have been translated into many
languages, include The Argumentative Indian; Identity and Violence: The
Illusion of Destiny; Rationality and Freedom; Collective Choice and Social
Welfare; On Economic Inequality; Poverty and Famines; Choice, Welfare
and Measurement; Resources, Values and Development; On Ethics and
Economics; The Standard of Living; Inequality Reexamined; Development
as Freedom; and The Idea of Justice.
Born in Santiniketan, India in 1933, Sen studied at Presidency
College in Calcutta, India and at Trinity College, Cambridge. He is an
Indian citizen.
Rt. Hon. Professor Shirley Williams
Rt. Hon. Professor Shirley Williams is co-founder of
the Liberal Democrats and is a member of the UK
House of Lords, where she was leader of the party
from 2001 to 2004. She is professor emeritus of
elective politics at the John F. Kennedy School of
Government at Harvard University and advises the
Prime Minister on issues of nuclear proliferation. She is a member of the
International Commission on Nuclear Non Proliferation and Disarmament,
which has recently published its conclusions, “Eliminating Nuclear Threats.”
Williams began her career as a journalist for The Daily Mirror and The
Financial Times and in 1960 became secretary of the Fabian society.
She served as a member of the House of Commons, as well as a Labor
cabinet minister of education and science. In 1981, she broke away from
the Labor Party to co-found the Social Democratic Party, which in 1988
merged with the Liberal Party to form the Liberal Democrats, now the
third party in British politics. She became Baroness Williams of Crosby in
1993 and was spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats on Foreign and
Commonwealth Affairs in the Lords from 1998 to 2001.
Williams’ past endeavours include: directing the Harvard-based
Project Liberty, which focused on Eastern Europe; member of the Advi-
sory Council to the UN Secretary General on the Fourth World Women’s
conference; member of the European Commission’s Comite de Sages on
social and civil rights; and co-president of Chatham House (Royal Institute
of International Affairs), 2002 to 2006.
Williams is a governor of the Ditchley Foundation and the Kennedy
School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. She is a
trustee of the Century Foundation in New York and the IPPR in London.
She is the author of several books including Politics is for People
(1981), A Job to Live (1985), God and Caesar (2003) and Climbing the
Bookshelves (2009).
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 47
Warren E. Buffett
Warren E. Buffett, who has been concerned about
the threats from weapons of mass destruction for
four decades, serves as an advisor to NTI’s Board
of Directors.
Buffett is chairman of the board and chief
executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., a
holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse
business activities and controlled by him since 1965. Berkshire Hatha-
way Inc.’s business activities include the underwriting of property and
casualty insurance and a wide variety of manufacturing, retailing and
service companies.
Buffett started out as an investment salesman and securities analyst,
and early in his career, he created his own investment partnership.
Buffett also serves as a director of The Washington Post Company
and is a life trustee of Grinnell College and The Urban Institute. Buffett
attended the Woodrow Wilson High School in Washington, DC, the
Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania and in
1950 received his BS from the University of Nebraska. He earned his
MS in Economics from Columbia University in 1951.
Advisors to the
Board of Directors
Professor Fujia Yang
Professor Fujia Yang, academician of the Chinese
Academy of Sciences, is an internationally
renowned nuclear physicist who currently serves
as the sixth Chancellor of the University of Notting-
ham, one of the United Kingdom’s leading research
universities, and the vice chairman of the Chinese
Association for Science and Technology.
Born in Shanghai, Yang graduated from Fudan University in 1958
with a degree in physics. He went from his initial appointment as a teach-
ing assistant, to a professorial chair in physics, to the presidency of the
University of Fudan from 1993 to 1999. He served as director of the
Shanghai Institute of Nuclear Research of the Chinese Academy of Sci-
ences from 1987 to 2001, was chairman of the Shanghai Science and
Technology Association from 1992 to 1996 and was the founding presi-
dent of the Association of University Presidents of China from 1997 to
1999.
Yang’s work has taken him to positions around the globe, includ-
ing visiting professorships at the Neils Bohr Institute in Copenhagen,
Denmark, The State University of New York at Stony Brook, Rutgers Uni-
versity and Tokyo University.
Yang served as a council member representing China on the Asso-
ciation of East Asia Research Universities and was a member of the
International Association of University Presidents and the Association of
University Presidents of the Pacific Rim. He holds honorary degrees from
Soka University, Tokyo, Japan; the State University of New York; the Uni-
versity of Hong Kong; the University of Nottingham; and the University
of Connecticut.
48 NTI
Dr. dAVID A. HAMBURG
David A. Hamburg is DeWitt Wallace Distin-
guished Scholar at Weill Cornell Medical College.
He is president emeritus at Carnegie Corporation
of New York, where he served as president from
1982 to 1997. A medical doctor, Hamburg has a
long history of leadership in the research, medical
and psychiatric fields. He has been a professor at Stanford University
and Harvard University, president of the Institute of Medicine, National
Academy of Sciences, and president of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science.
He was a member of the U.S. Defense Policy Board with Secretary of
Defense William Perry and co-chair with former Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance of the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict.
He was a member of President Clinton’s Committee of Advisors on
Science and Technology. Most recently, Hamburg chaired two parallel
committees at the United Nations and European Union on the prevention
of genocide – one reporting directly to the UN secretary-general and the
other to Javier Solana, secretary-general of the Council of the European
Union.
Hamburg also serves on the board of the Carter Center, the advisory
board of the Center for Preventive Action of the Council on Foreign Rela-
tions, the advisory council of Stanford’s Freeman Spogli Institute of Inter-
national Studies, the Harvard International Advisory Council and is distin-
guished presidential advisor on International Affairs, National Academy
of Sciences. He is the author of a number of books including Preventing
Genocide: Practical Steps Toward Early Detection and Effective Action.
An educational documentary based on the book was completed in the
spring of 2009 and an updated edition of the book has been published
this fall.
Dr. Hamburg has received numerous awards including the Presiden-
tial Medal of Freedom (the highest civilian award of the United States).
Dr. Siegfried S. Hecker
Siegfried S. Hecker is co-director of the Stanford
University Center for International Security and
Cooperation, senior fellow of the Freeman Spogli
Institute for International Studies and profes-
sor (research) in the Department of Management
Science and Engineering. He is also director emeri-
tus at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, where he served as director
from 1986 to 1997 and senior fellow until July 2005.
He received his BS, MS and PhD degrees in metallurgy from Case
Western Reserve University. His current professional interests include
plutonium research, cooperative nuclear threat reduction with the
Russian nuclear complex and global nonproliferation and counter ter-
rorism. He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and
served as a Councilor and serves on the National Academy of Sciences
Committee on International Security and Cooperation Nonproliferation
Panel. He is a foreign member of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, fellow of the
American Physical Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, The Metallur-
gical Society, ASM International and an honorary member of the Ameri-
can Ceramics Society. Among other awards, he received the Presiden-
tial Enrico Fermi Award, the Los Alamos National Laboratory Medal, the
Department of Energy’s E. Lawrence Award and the American Nuclear
Society Seaborg Award.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 49
Dr. David Heymann
Dr. David Heymann is currently chair of the Health
Protection Agency UK; head of the Centre on
Global Health Security at Chatham House, London
and professor of infectious disease epidemiology at
the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medi-
cine. Previously, he was the World Health Organi-
zation's Assistant Director-General for Health Security and Environment
and the representative of the Director-General for polio eradication.
From 1998 to 2003, he was executive director of the WHO Commu-
nicable Diseases Cluster and from October 1995 to July 1998 he was
director of the WHO Programme on Emerging and Other Communicable
Diseases. Prior to that, he was the chief of research activities in the WHO
Global Programme on AIDS.
Before joining WHO, Dr. Heymann worked for 13 years as a medical
epidemiologist in sub-Saharan Africa on assignment from the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In this capacity he
supported ministries of health in designing and implementing programs
in infectious disease prevention and control, with emphasis on childhood
diseases, malaria and the African haemorrhagic fevers. Prior to that, he
worked in India for two years as a medical epidemiologist in the WHO
Smallpox Eradication Programme.
Frederick Iseman
Frederick J. Iseman is chairman and chief execu-
tive officer of CI Capital Partners LLC (formerly
Caxton-Iseman Capital), which he founded in 1993
in partnership with Caxton Associates. He is chair-
man of CI Capital Partners' portfolio companies in
various industries.
Iseman has published articles in The New York Times, Harper's
Magazine, The New Yorker, and other publications, and his writing has
been anthologized in The Inquiring Reader (Holt, Rinehart). He is a board
member of the International Rescue Committee and the Academy for
Educational Development.
He graduated from Yale University and is now a member of the Yale
University Council. He endowed Yale’s Frederick Iseman Theater; estab-
lished the Frederick Iseman ’74 Directorship of the Yale Center for the
Study of Globalization, with Ernesto Zedillo named as the inaugural direc-
tor; as well as a graduate fellowship and a college textbook at the Yale
Center for Genocide Studies.
Iseman is a member of the Chairman’s Council of the Council on
Foreign Relations and was a participating member of the Council on
Foreign Relations' Independent Task Force on U.S. Nuclear Weapons
Posture, chaired by Dr. William Perry and Brent Scowcroft. He is a
member of the International Council of the Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs (John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard
University). In addition, Iseman is a member of the Board of Directors
of the Metropolitan Opera, the Municipal Art Society of New York, the
Board of Trustees of Carnegie Hall, the Board of Directors of the White
Nights Foundation of America of the Mariinsky Theatre Opera and Ballet
of St. Petersburg, Russia and a member of the Chairman’s Council of the
Museum of Modern Art. He resides in Manhattan with his two children.
50 NTI
GEORGE F. RUSSELL, JR.
George Russell built the Frank Russell Company
from one part-time secretary in 1958 to one of
the world’s leading investment advisory firms. He
served as chairman from 1958 until the firm was
sold to Northwestern Mutual Life in 1999. Today,
the company guides more than 1,900 clients in 44
countries with assets exceeding more than $2.4 trillion, and manages
$171 billion in funds. The company is often recognized by the stock
market index, “The Russell 2000.”
Internationally known as an advocate for narrowing the gap between
the “haves” and the “have nots,” Russell has a focus on a number of chal-
lenges: the promotion of globalization, the destruction of nuclear waste,
the strengthening of U.S.-Russian relations, ground-level humanitarian
projects and bridging the current divide between Muslims and non-Mus-
lims in America.
Currently, Russell is the chairman of One Nation (a project working to
change the perceptions of Islam and Muslims in America), Nuclear Fuel
Cycle Technologies, Inc., The Russell Family Foundation, Threshold Group;
chairman emeritus of the EastWest Institute and The National Bureau
of Asian Research; honorary co-chairman of the Business Humanitarian
Forum; advisory council member of The University of Peace; and board
member of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 51
NTI is fortunate to have an accomplished group of board members who provide wise counsel and support to NTI in
advancing its mission. Below are some of their specific activities that support NTI’s goals to promote a safer world.
Alexei Arbatov co-edited with Vladimir Dvorkin a groundbreaking new book, Nuclear Proliferation: New Tech-
nologies, Weapons, Treaties, published by the Carnegie Moscow Center.
Former Senator Pete Domenici has focused needed attention on nuclear energy and nuclear security issues
through the Pete V. Domenici Institute for Public Policy at New Mexico State University.
Susan Eisenhower is a key member of the Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear Future, which will
provide recommendations for a safe, long-term solution to managing used nuclear fuel and nuclear waste. 
Ambassador Rolf Ekéus has been tireless in his efforts to engage key non-nuclear weapon states on the vision
of a world free of nuclear weapons and the importance of near-term threat reduction steps.
Board members have also weighed in, at critical moments, on the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (New START).
General Eugene Habiger has publicly supported New START, as has William Perry, who testified before
the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee and co-authored with George Shultz a New York Times op-ed, “How to
Build on the START Treaty.” As ranking member of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Richard
Lugar played a critical role in moving the treaty forward for ratification.
In 2010 William Perry was named joint chair of an independent panel selected to review the Department of
Defense’s Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR).
At the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Jessica Mathews formed the European-Atlantic Security
Initiative (EASI), a high-level international commission that will lay the intellectual foundation for an inclusive Euro-
Atlantic security system for the 21st century. Sam Nunn and Igor Ivanov are EASI co-chairs.
Baroness shirley Williams has played a visible and important leadership role in the United Kingdom and
Europe on moving governments towards supporting nuclear non-proliferation and threat reduction agendas.
NTI Board: Working for a Safer World
52 NTI
Officers &
Staff*
*NTI Staff through June 30, 2010
Sam Nunn
Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
(See biography in Board of Directors section)
Charles B. Curtis
President Emeritus
(See biography in Board of Directors section)
Joan Rohlfing
President and Chief Operating Officer
(See biography in Board of Directors section)
Deborah G. Rosenblum
Executive Vice President
Deborah Rosenblum became executive vice
president of NTI in January 2010, after serving
as senior director for strategic planning and
operations since August 2009. Prior to NTI,
she spent seven years as vice president of the
Cohen Group, an international consulting firm.
She served for 12 years in several senior level
positions with the United States Department
of Defense in the areas of homeland defense,
peacekeeping operations and support, nuclear
forces and counter-proliferation policy. During
that time she represented the U.S. as nego-
tiator with the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea on bilateral negotiations for their nuclear
program. Rosenblum holds a BA from Middle-
bury College in Vermont and a Masters of Inter-
national Affairs from Columbia University, School
of International and Public Affairs in New York.
Corey Hinderstein
Vice President for International Programs
Corey Hinderstein became vice president for
international programs in December 2009, after
serving as director for the international program
since 2007. She came to NTI in 2006 from the
Institute for Science and International Secu-
rity (ISIS), where she was the deputy director.
Her research has focused on the intersection
of technical and policy issues related to nuclear
proliferation and nuclear material security. Hin-
derstein is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Clark
University and is a member of the executive
committee of the Institute of Nuclear Materials
Management.
Carmen MacDougall
Vice President for Communications
Carmen MacDougall joined NTI in May 2010.
She had been a consultant with The Harbour
Group, a public affairs firm in Washington, DC,
and also directed communications for the Com-
mission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass
Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism. Earlier,
she spent more than six years at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, as vice
president for communications. MacDougall held
a number of positions at the U.S. Department of
Energy, including deputy assistant secretary for
communications. Her private sector experience
includes serving as vice president with Ogilvy
Public Relations Worldwide.
Page Stoutland, PhD
Vice President for Nuclear
Materials Security Program
Dr. Page Stoutland joined NTI in 2010 from Law-
rence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL),
where he held a number of senior positions,
including director of strategy within the global
security principal directorate, program direc-
tor for domestic security and division leader for
radiological and nuclear countermeasures. In
these positions, he had responsibility, respec-
tively, for the development and implementa-
tion of the Global Security Strategic Business
Plan, for the overall direction of LLNL’s Domes-
tic Security Program and oversight of LLNL’s
nuclear emergency response and research and
development programs. Prior to joining LLNL,
he held positions within the U.S. Department of
Energy and at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
Stoutland received a BA at St. Olaf College in
Northfield, Minnesota and a PhD in chemistry at
the University of California, Berkeley.
Charlotte S. Atkinson, ACA, CPA
Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer
Charlotte Atkinson joined NTI from Deloitte,
where she was an audit senior manager. She
has more than ten years of experience auditing
non-profits, financial services and service orga-
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 53
University in 2006. He is an MA candidate in
security studies at Georgetown University.
Louise S. Gresham, PhD, MPH
Senior Director, NTI's Global Health and
Security Initiative
Dr.LouiseGreshampreviouslyservedasthesenior
epidemiologist for San Diego County’s Health and
Human Services Agency and has more than 20
years of experience conducting and supervis-
ing infectious disease surveillance and response
activities. In addition she directed the San Diego
State University Center for Public Health Security.
Gresham brings expertise in national and inter-
national disease surveillance systems, including
U.S. Mexico Border Infectious Disease Surveil-
lance, the Middle East Consortium on Infectious
Disease Surveillance and the Southern African
Centre for Infectious Disease Surveillance.
Gresham holds an adjunct associate professor
appointment at the Graduate School of Public
Health, San Diego State University and is well
published in peer-reviewed journals and texts.
Catherine O’Brien Gwin
Senior Director of Communications
Cathy Gwin came to NTI from the law firm of King
& Spalding, where she served as former Senator
Sam Nunn’s director of communications and
public policy. She previously served as Senator
Nunn’s press secretary in the U.S. Senate and
the spokesperson for the Senate Armed Services
Committee. She has a BA in Journalism from
Auburn University.
Diane G. Hauslein
Director of Administration
Diane Hauslein joined NTI following a 21-year
career in the field of legal management, includ-
ing finance, human resources, facilities/equip-
ment management, technology and marketing.
Most recently, Hauslein served as the director of
administration for the Washington, DC office of
an international law firm co-managed by James
Hall, former Chairman of the National Transpor-
tation Safety Board.
Paul Kaczmarek
Grants Manager, NTI's Global
Health and Security Initiative
Paul Kaczmarek holds a MA from the Russian
and East European Institute at Indiana Uni-
versity and a BA in History from Holy Cross
College. Before joining NTI, Kaczmarek worked
in the field of refugee resettlement in the United
States as an employment specialist and grants
administrator.
Claire Lehman
Communications Manager
Claire Lehman previously served as a field
organizer for the Barack Obama Florida
Campaign for Change and at a private equity firm.
She had held positions with NTI’s Global Health
and Security Initiative, the International Council
for the Life Sciences and the International
Institute of Strategic Studies-U.S. Lehman holds
a BA from the University of Maryland.
nizations. Atkinson is a certified public accoun-
tant and a member of the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants. She is also a
chartered accountant and a member of the Insti-
tute of Chartered Accountants in England and
Wales. She holds a BSc (Hons) in Physics from
the University of Bristol and a Master’s degree
in International Studies from the University of
Birmingham, UK.
Robert E. Berls, Jr., PhD
Senior Advisor, Nuclear Materials Security
Program; Director of the Moscow Office
Dr. Robert Berls brings to NTI a background in
Soviet/Russian energy and nuclear weapons
issues. As a colonel in the U.S. Air Force, he
served as air attaché at the U.S. Embassy in the
1980s. During the Clinton Administration, he
was special assistant to the Secretary of Energy
for Russia/NIS Programs. Before joining NTI,
he was vice president for business development
and government relations for a U.S. oil company.
Matthew Dupuis
Research Associate
Matthew Dupuis joined NTI in 2009 after
working in the International Security Program
at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies. At CSIS, he worked on projects relating
to strengthening multilateral cooperation to fight
proliferation and identifying potential techni-
cal and political pathways for countries seeking
nuclear weapons. He received a BA in communi-
cations and political science from Texas Lutheran
54 NTI
Alexander Nikitin
Director of Online Communications
Prior to joining NTI, Nikitin pursued a PhD in
Comparative Literature at Stanford University.
He has held teaching positions at the Monterey
Institute of International Studies and Carn-
egie Mellon University. He grew up in Russia
and received his undergraduate education at
Moscow State University and later at Dartmouth
College. He has a BA from Dartmouth College.
Nikitin is fluent in English and Russian, and pro-
ficient in French and Italian.
Major Robert E. Schultz, USAF (Ret.),
PMP
Senior Program Officer, Nuclear
Materials Security Program
Major Robert Schultz joined NTI after a military
career in strategic nuclear operations and stra-
tegic offensive arms threat reduction. He brings
extensive program implementation experience
from the U.S. Department of Defense’s Nunn-
Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program,
where he was involved in the disposition of
Russian strategic missiles. He also served as
a Minuteman ICBM flight commander and
as an operations planner on the Strategic Air
Command’s Airborne Command Post “Looking
Glass.” Major Schultz is a certified project man-
agement professional (PMP) and holds a Mas-
ter’s Certificate in Applied Project Management
from Villanova University.
Isabelle Williams
Program Officer, International Program
Isabelle Williams came to NTI from the Partner-
ship for Global Security, where she managed
the next generation nonproliferation program.
She was previously research associate at the
Chemical and Biological Arms Control Institute
and held successive positions at the Interna-
tional Institute for Strategic Studies in London.
She holds a BA (Hons) and a MA in Interna-
tional Studies from the University of Leeds, UK.
NTI ADMINISTRATIVE Staff
Catherine Crary
Executive Assistant
Naomi Diehl
Special Assistant to the President and
Coordinator for the Nuclear Security Project
Valeria MacPhail
Director, Office of the Honorable Sam Nunn
Owen Masangkay
Finance Administrator
Carole Mize
Receptionist/Administrative Assistant
Michelle Nalabandian
Executive Assistant
Margie Passerini
Board Liaison/Development Associate
Natalia Petrie
Accounting Manager
Tempe Stephen
Special Assistant to the CEO–Washington DC
Tammy Ware
Executive Assistant
Caressa Williams
Executive Assistant
NTI recognizes these former staff members
who contributed to our activities in 2009:
Tatiana Elleman
Program Associate
Laura S.H. Holgate
Vice President for Russia/New
Independent States (NIS) Programs
Mark A. Kitchens
Vice President for Communications
Whitney Ray
Executive Assistant
Mariah Richardson
Program Associate, Global Health
and Security Initiative
Chelsea Shiery
Executive Assistant
Terence Taylor
Vice President, Global Health
and Security Initiative
Bryan K. Wilkes
Director of Programs and Outreach
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 55
Support NTI’s work to combat the most urgent security threats of the
21st century. NTI takes direct action to help catalyze policy change
and increase government attention and support. With your help, we
can make a bigger difference.
If you support NTI, your generosity will be matched by others to make
the biggest possible impact. Your gift will support projects in these
areas:
Strengthening Nuclear Materials Security
Acquiring nuclear weapons and materials is the hardest step for
terrorists to take and the easiest step for us to stop. Support NTI’s
efforts to lock down and secure these dangerous materials around
the world.
Combating Biological Threats	
A 1999 Al Qaeda memo recommended that the group’s biological
weapons program seek cover in universities. Support NTI’s biosecu-
rity work to promote science security and strengthen global disease
surveillance, detection and response.
Raising Public Awareness
An informed public can put pressure on governments to act.
Support NTI’s efforts to highlight the gap between the threat from
these weapons and materials and the global response.
www.nti.org/donate
Get Involved
Threats from nuclear,
biological and chemical
weapons are growing.
NTI is working to reduce
these dangers.
We need your help.
NTI has proven that
private citizens can act.
Your actions can make a
difference.
56 NTI
NTI wishes to thank these donors who made generous gifts between
January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2009. They and hundreds of
individual donors support our work for a safer world.
Carnegie Corporation of New York
Warren Buffett
Peter G. Peterson Foundation
Frederick Iseman
Russell Family Foundation
The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation
The Rockefeller Foundation
World Bank
Schaffner Family Foundation
David W. Harding
Edlow International Company
Joan Leidy Foundation
Russell J. Fuller
Contribute to NTI

Make an online credit
card donation on NTI’s
secure website at
www.nti.org/donate

Direct a gift from
family foundations or
charitable funds

Give gifts of stock,
securities or real
estate
NTI is recognized by the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service as a 501(c)(3)
charity, and donations in the United
States’ are tax deductible to the full
extent of the law.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 57
	
JOIN Join the Safer World Action Network
and help reduce nuclear dangers, strengthen our
defenses against biological threats and increase
global security.
www.nti.org/signup
LEARN Get daily news updates by subscribing
to Global Security Newswire, by e-mail or RSS.
www.globalsecuritynewswire.org
		
SHARE Become a fan of Nuclear Threat Initiative
on Facebook.
GIVE Support our work to build a safer world
through your financial donation.
www.nti.org/donate
1747 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
Seventh Floor
Washington, DC 20006
USA
202 296 4810 t
202 296 4811 f
www.nti.org
