QUALITY. INDEPENDENCE. IMPACT.
1775 Massachusetts Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
www.brookings.edu
Annual Report 2015
BROOKINGS
1
BROOKINGS
Convening
Power
Senior policymakers from across the political spectrum
and heads of state from across the world choose
Brookings for major policy speeches. Why? Because
they know that they will be speaking to a well-
informed, engaged, and influential audience. They
know that Brookings is a place where rigorous research
and practical policy prescriptions, not ideological
agendas, drive the debate. Brookings's commitment
to independence and academic freedom helps create
an atmosphere where good ideas can thrive. This
convening power is an important part of what makes
Brookings a valuable resource for policymakers,
journalists, and the public.
PHOTO BY PAUL MORIGI
2 3
President's Message
Co-Chairs' Message
or institutions as well as individuals, milestone anniversaries focus the mind on the past
and the future. What have we accomplished? What have we learned? What are our goals
going forward? What adjustments are necessary to meet those goals? As Brookings marks
its centenary in 2016, all of us--Trustees, scholars, and staff--are taking stock. We're
determined to keep faith with our founders' conviction that independent, nonpartisan
research contributes to the efficacy of governance.
Since their time, the world has become vastly more complicated and interdependent. The same
has happened to governance itself. Burgeoning and innovative technology, the communications
revolution, and globalization have empowered non-governmental organizations and non-state
actors ranging in purpose from humanitarian relief and universal education to terrorism and piracy.
Brookings scholars have studied this phenomenon and recommended ways to bolster its upside and
deal with its downside.
We've grown substantially in recent years, enabling us to take on these and other new challenges,
deepen and broaden our research, and expand our outreach to--and engagement with--new
audiences, constituencies, communities of thought-leaders, and partnerships.
While managing this growth and evolution, we've done our best to hew to the vision, values, and
ideals of the founders: the highest intellectual standards, insulation from outside pressures, and the
relevance of our work to the major issues of the day. In short: Quality, Independence, Impact.
That motto won't change, nor will our fealty to it. What will change, inevitably and to good
effect, is how we carry our legacy into our second century. Some of those changes are already
underway. For example, the Brookings Press still publishes dozens of titles a year, but now the
product is often in digital format. Much of our output has migrated to our website, where it is free
to all, instantaneously. Social media, such as Twitter and Facebook, has allowed our scholars to be
heard--and to hear other voices--in what is now a global conversation.
We, along with our Trustees, are also committed to accelerating progress in diversification in all
parts of the Brookings community, on the board as well as on the staff, and in multiple categories:
geography, gender, ethnicity, generation, and professional perspective.
More improvements and innovations will emerge from the strategic plan that John and David
announced in their letter. As we develop, refine, and begin to implement that plan over the next year,
we owe it to our founders, to you as our supporters, to ourselves, and to our successors to make sure
that we have the right priorities and the right tools to address them.
We also need the resources to maintain our momentum and our preeminence in an increasingly
competitive environment. In this, the last annual report of Brookings's first century, I hope you'll find
evidence that my colleagues are earning your support and engagement in that effort. I also hope that
you'll let John, David, and me know your own suggestions as we plan for our second century.
Strobe Talbott
President
John L. Thornton
Co-Chair of the Board
little more than a century ago, when
our original predecessors set about
creating the Institution we serve
today, their first step was to put in
writing their aspirations, values, a
business plan, and an agenda.
In March 1916, after a year and a half of
deliberation, they issued publicly an eight-page
prospectus for a scholarly institute, supported
and overseen by "an association of citizens,"
that would "promote efficiency in government
and advance the science of administration."
They stressed the need to promulgate the
findings and recommendations in order to engage and influence "active public interest." They also
vowed to avoid "propaganda" and to stick to fact-based research and objective analysis. The Trustees
assigned themselves the responsibility "to vouch before the public for the integrity of the enterprise
and its freedom from the slightest political bias."
The group included reformist and philanthropic leaders from the world of business and finance,
some with experience in government. There were also five presidents of major universities and the
chairman of the board of Washington University in St. Louis--Robert S. Brookings. Those members
in particular were adamant that, in addition to institutional independence, the Institution they
created would guarantee academic freedom for its scholars. That principle, too, was incorporated into
the prospectus.
That document--conceived and authored by the Trustees before there were bricks and mortar
and before the first scholars were hired--was, in effect, the founding strategic plan for what the
world now knows as the Brookings Institution. Ninety-nine years later, we and our fellow Trustees are
working hand in glove with Strobe and his colleagues to use our centenary year to develop and begin
to implement a strategic plan that strikes a balance between continuity and change.
The core principles articulated in the 1916 prospectus are, if anything, even more crucial
today. For example, as the United States heads into what is likely to be a long, bruising, and
none-too-edifyingnational political campaign, we'll keep alive the spirit of nonpartisanship that
led Robert S. Brookings, whose own public service was under Woodrow Wilson, to recruit to the
board an ex-president, William Howard Taft, and a future one as well, Herbert Hoover. They and
other prominent Republicans served alongside leading lights of the Democratic Party such as Felix
Frankfurter, 
Frederic Delano, and Dean Acheson.
The strategic plan will also reflect our fiduciary responsibility to ensure that the combination of
our fiscal policies, internal controls, and funding practices ensure the integrity of our management,
the maintenance of our reputation, the protection of our brand, and the sustainability of our business
model as we cross the 100-year threshold.
Just as members of the original board made it possible, through their own donations, to turn
their brainstorm into an iconic, path-breaking, and permanent fixture on the national and now
global landscape, we, as their successors, are determined to succeed in our $600 million Second
Century Campaign--the largest ever for a think tank--which will conclude at the end of 2016. Our
success also depends on the generosity of a growing network of friends who value Brookings's past
achievements, current impact, and future promise. We're grateful for your support and look forward
to continued engagement.
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
KATHERINE
LAMBERT
David M. Rubenstein
Co-Chair of the Board
A F
4 5
Economic Studies
T
he U.S. economy continues to grow
at a moderate pace since the Great
Recession at a time when economic
problems abroad--particularly issues
in the eurozone and slowing growth in
China--are adding uncertainty to the
global outlook. With the Federal Reserve consider-
ing raising interest rates and the Administration
and Congress at odds on fiscal policy, it is increas-
ingly difficult to find a path toward a sustainably
growing economy and one that offers opportunity
for mobility. As policymakers grapple with how to
address these challenges, experts in the Economic
Studies program are bringing rigorous analysis
and practical recommendations to help make the
economy work for all.
Deepening Our Bench of Economic Experts
Economic Studies welcomed a number of new
scholars to its ranks this year, adding new capacity
to analyze important issues. Senior Fellow Stuart
Butler is an expert on health policy, education, the
budget, and social mobility. He's the editor of the
Health360 blog, which focuses on new ideas and
developments in health policy and their impact
on individuals, communities, and health systems
in the U.S. and around the world. Brookings also
welcomed three new guest scholars to Economic
Studies. Former Congressional Budget Office
Director Douglas W. Elmendorf will work on
macro
economic topics, including fiscal and
monetary policy. Former Special Assistant to
the President for Economic Policy and Senior
Advisor for Financial Services Seth Wheeler,
who served in both the Bush and Obama
administrations, will focus on financial innova-
tion, technology and policy, as well as housing
finance. Joshua Gotbaum is former director of
the U.S. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
and is working on retirement security and public
finance issues.
With the generous support of Chris Rokos,
Brookings established the Rokos Policy Fellow-
ship in the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Mon-
etary Policy. This fellowship offers senior policy-
makers in the legislative and executive branches
a six-month sabbatical from their government
posts to work on a focused research project in
Economic Studies resulting in a set of concrete
policy recommendations. The inaugural Rokos
Policy Fellow was Michael Falkenheim, Deputy
Associate Director of Economic Policy at the
Office of Management and Budget, who works
on managing pension benefit guarantees.
Shaping Economic Policy
through Independent Research
Ben
Bernanke's
Blog
B
en Bernanke,
former chair-
man of the
Federal
Reserve and now Dis-
tinguished Fellow in
Residence in Economic
Studies, launched a
blog in March 2015 that
has quickly become
one of the most popu-
lar resources for those
interested in monetary
policy. The blog had
450,000 page views
and was the subject
of 355 stories in the
media in its first week
of existence. One of
the highlights of the
blog so far has been
a lively exchange with
former Treasury Secre-
tary Larry Summers on
secular stagnation and
low interest rates.
"The Brookings
Institution is
a think tank
as respected
as it is long-
lived. Over the
last century,
empires have
come and
gone, the
world order
has changed
but Brookings
has sailed
on, not just
commenting
on events but
shaping them."
--Lord Jonathan Hill,
Member, European
Commission
Chair of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors Janet Yellen (left) and Visiting Fellow Douglas Elmendorf, former
Congressional Budget Office director, in the audience of an event marking the 40th anniversary of the publication
of Equality and Efficiency: The Big Tradeoff by former Brookings economist Arthur Okun, which was re-released as
a Brookings Classic this year
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Brookings Trustee
Wilbur Ross with
Chairman of
the Council of
Economic Advisers
Jason Furman,
Vice Chair of the
Brookings Board
Glenn Hutchins,
and Vice President
and Director of
Economic Studies
Ted Gayer (from
left) prior to an
event on achieving
strong economic
growth
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PM IMAGES/GETTY IMAGES
6 7
Economic Studies
>
Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/economics
and follow @BrookingsEcon
In Memoriam: Bill Frenzel
B
ill Frenzel, who was a guest scholar at
Brookings for 23 years, passed away in
November 2014 at the age of 86. Bill
had represented Minnesota's 3rd District
in Congress for 20 years. He served as special
advisor to President Bill Clinton for NAFTA, and
President George W. Bush appointed him to the
Social Security Commission and the Advisory
Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations. A
collegial scholar of impressive intellect, Bill was a
valued member of the Brookings community and
contributed greatly to the life of the Institution.
New Resources for
Tax Policy Research
R
obert C. Pozen, an American financial
executive, established the Pozen Direc-
tor's Chair at the Urban-Brookings
Tax Policy Center through a generous
endowment gift to Brookings and the Urban
Institute, which jointly operate the Center. The
inaugural holder of the Chair is Leonard Burman,
director of the Tax Policy Center. As the Center's
first-ever permanent endowment, the gift pro-
vides durable, dedicated resources to support
innovative, independent research on pressing
issues in tax policy and tax reform. "I am glad
to support such a great institution," Pozen said.
"The Tax Policy Center is one of the few American
organizations that con-
sistently provides non-
partisan and thought-
ful analysis of current
tax issues." Founded
in 2002, the Tax Policy
Center is comprised of
nationally recognized
experts in tax, budget,
and social policy, many
of whom have served
at the highest levels of
government.
The Premier Forum for
Economic Research
T
he Brookings Papers on Economic Activ-
ity (BPEA), founded by former Economic
Studies Fellow Arthur Okun in 1970 is a
premier source of innovative research on
current macroeconomic issues. The twice-annual
conferences are highly anticipated events that
attract top economists and media from around the
world, with research grounded in empirical analysis
and practical application.
Emerging economists also get their chance at
BPEA. In 2015, Matthew Rognlie, a PhD student at
MIT, became only the second graduate student to
present a sole-authored paper in BPEA's history;
his research questioned the underlying assump-
tions of Thomas Piketty's widely read Capital in
the Twenty-First Century. One of the discussants
for Rognlie's paper, which had its roots in a com-
ment he posted on a popular economics blog, was
Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Solow.
Improving Social Mobility
Unplanned births, especially those outside of mar-
riage, are just one of a number of complex, interre-
lated factors that contribute to persistent poverty and
a lack of social mobility. Arguments over whether to
address this phenomenon through supporting unmar-
ried parents or urging a return to traditional marriage
remain unresolved, and the nation's ideological divide
demands an alternative approach. Senior Fellow
Isabel Sawhill offers a third way in her new book,
Generation Unbound, which draws on insights from
behavioral economics to examine ways to encourage
people to become "planners"--who delay parenthood
until they marry--instead of "drifters"--who are hav-
ing unplanned children early and outside of marriage.
Senior Fellow Ron Haskins, co-director of
the Center on Children and Families and who
holds the Cabot Family Chair, authored Show
"I have great
respect for
Brookings as
an institution
and the
work they do
examining all
issues. They
take both the
long and the
short-term
view. They
think about
and analyze
trends over
time, (and)
conduct smart,
systemic
empirical
research."
--Sylvia Burwell,
Secretary of Health and
Human Services Robert Pozen
Me the Evidence, which tells the story of how the
Obama administration planned and enacted sev-
eral initiatives to fund social programs that have
been proven to work. Based on interviews with
a range of stakeholders, he offers a blueprint for
policymakers worldwide interested in expanding
the use of evidence in policymaking--something
that seems obvious but, in fact, only one percent
of U.S. government-funded social programs have
ever been shown to be effective.
Advancing Opportunity,
Prosperity, and Growth
Under the direction of Senior Fellow Diane Whit-
more Schanzenbach and Policy Director Jane
Dokko, the Hamilton Project seeks to advance
opportunity, prosperity, and growth in the American
economy. This year, Hamilton experts published
policy papers on topics such as the promise and
limits of education's impact on inequality, and water
management. An influential paper by University
of Minnesota Professor Morris Kleiner found that
excessive occupational licensing requirements
impose net costs on society with little benefit to
service quality, health, or safety; he also proposed
reforms at the state and federal level that would
increase employment and consumer access to
goods and services, and reduce prices.
Finding a Path Forward on Climate Policy
Extreme drought in the western U.S. and tor-
rential rains in Texas have brought the effects of
climate change to the forefront of the national
conversation. Figuring out how to reduce human-
induced risks to the earth's climate without crip-
pling the economy remains a major unresolved
question. To help policymakers understand the
choices, Senior Fellow Adele Morris, policy direc-
tor of the Climate and Energy Economics Project,
has been examining options and implications of
different approaches, including carbon
taxes in the context of broader fiscal
reform. The PlanetPolicy blog, to
which she and other scholars across
the Institution contribute, covers a
range of topics, from international
negotiations and agreements to
adapting to the effects of a chang-
ing climate to water security in the
U.S. and around the globe. Bill Frenzel
PHOTO
COURTESY
OF
ROBERT
POZEN
PHOTO
BY
SAM
KITTNER
Then-Greek Finance Minister
Yanis Varoufakis outlines
prospects for reform and
economic renewal for Greece
PHOTO
BY
STEVE
PURCELL
Federal Minister of
Finance for Germany
Wolfgang Schauble
discusses economic policy
in Germany and Europe
PHOTO
BY
STEVE
PURCELL
Federal Reserve Board
Governor Lael Brainard
discusses the outlook
for the economy with
the International
Advisory Council
Senior Fellow and Director of the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary
Policy David Wessel (left) discusses the state of the U.S. economy with
Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew at an event the day after President Obama's
State of the Union Address
Senior Fellow and Co-Director of the Center on Children
and Families Richard Reeves explains the odds of
children from married parents ending up in the top
quintile of income in his video "Is America Dreaming?
Understanding Social Mobility"
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
8 9
Foreign Policy
Navigating a Changing Globe
ussia's aggression against Ukraine and
China's regional maritime provocations
reveal the rise of direct challengers to
the liberal, international order. When
coupled with the emergence of the
ISIS sub-state threat to the state sys-
tem, 2015 reflects a year of considerable strain
on the U.S.-led international order. While these
simmering regional conflicts have yet to boil over
into Great Power clashes, they have demonstrated
a return of geopolitical competition that menaces
the global order. We are approaching a pivotal his-
torical juncture; the U.S. response will be critical,
but it is far from determined. To help U.S. and
international policymakers navigate this challeng-
ing global landscape, the experts of the Foreign
Policy program are examining these developments
and generating actionable policy recommendations
to meet current threats to stability and peace.
Toward a Revitalized International Order
We have entered a more multipolar world, one
defined by regional tensions, new rising powers,
and the perception of a U.S. decline. America
remains more powerful than any other nation,
retaining the capacity to influence both competi-
tors and partners, and shape the 21st century
global order. However, the economic rise of select
nations, particularly the BRICs, has created a set
of formidable states with divergent visions for the
global order, threatening to destabilize the rules-
based international system.
In response to these changing global dynam-
ics, Foreign Policy launched the Order from Chaos
project. This program-wide effort, with 35 scholars,
one of the largest in Brookings's history, strives to
identify the factors driving this new global era and
develop a strategy for reinforcing the liberal order. To
expand debate, Foreign Policy introduced the Order
from Chaos blog. This platform enables Brookings
experts to share accessible analysis of issues ranging
from the future of Indian defense policy to the state
of the eurozone, in addition to increasing awareness
of Brookings's in-depth research (accumulating over
500,000 page views-per-month). Foreign Policy also
hosted high-profile public events with leading U.S.
and foreign policymakers and experts on subjects
including: the implications of China's rise, the evolv-
ing state of U.S. energy security, and the conse-
quences of Russia's revisionism.
Responding to Russia
The Russia-Ukraine conflict has sparked heated
debate in Washington--including within Brookings
R
"If you want
to begin to
understand
Russia
today, read
Mr. Putin:
Operative in
the Kremlin."
--Sir John Scarlett,
former chief of
the British Secret
Intelligence Service
(MI6)
Framing the
Obama-Modi
Summit
T
he election
of Narendra
Modi as
prime min-
ister of India ushered
in a period of great
promise for the U.S.-
India relationship. The
two nations have many
shared economic and
strategic interests; with
the right set of policies
in place, the two pos-
sess a great opportunity
to advance these com-
mon priorities. Ahead
of Prime Minister Modi's
visit to Washington in
September 2014, more
than two dozen Brook-
ings experts prepared
28 memos to help pre-
pare policymakers and
journalists for the sum-
mit. The memos pro-
vided in-depth analysis
of the key issues central
to the summit meetings,
including foreign and
security policies, eco-
nomic and trade issues,
energy security, and
social policies.
Cheng Li, director of the John L. Thornton China Center (right), greets President Xi Jinping in Seattle during the
Chinese leader's state visit to the United States
ALABASTRO
PHOTOGRAPHY
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
SHARON
FARMER
Executive Vice
President Martin
Indyk discusses
President
Obama's National
Security Strategy
with National
Security Advisor
Susan Rice
Fellow Tanvi Madan,
director of the India
Project
ZEIN AL-RIFAI/GETTY IMAGES
10 11
Foreign Policy
--over the correct U.S. response to this challenge.
Senior Fellow Steven Pifer and President Strobe
Talbott, alongside six other former U.S. security
officials, including Brookings alumnus Ivo
Daalder, composed a major report arguing for a
greater U.S. commitment to ending that conflict.
These prescriptions included increased funding to
upgrade Ukraine's defense capabilities, particularly
providing light anti-armor weapons to Ukraine.
The report became international headline news;
changing the terms of the global debate, it forced
comments from Chancellor Merkel, President
Obama, and others. Talbott and Pifer briefed the
vice president and national security advisor. The
report was well received by most of the adminis-
tration's senior officials and on Capitol Hill, where
a bipartisan majority embraced its proposals.
Confronting an aggressive Russia, U.S. policy-
makers must understand President Putin's motiva-
tions and worldview in order to devise an effective
strategy to counter Moscow's revanchist agenda.
Whether considering Putin's efforts to reestab-
lish a sphere of influence in Eastern Europe or
his turn to nationalism to burnish his domestic
popularity, Senior Fellows Fiona Hill and Clifford
Gaddy offer U.S. policymakers comprehensive
insights into the Russian leader. In 2015, Gaddy
and Hill, director of the Center on the United
States and Europe, released an expanded edition
of Mr. Putin: Operative in the Kremlin, adding
five new chapters that provide greater context on
Putin's ambitions for Russia.
Seeking Stability in the Middle East
Brookings possesses the scholarly breadth and
depth to perform thorough and real-time analysis
on the multiple crises unfolding in the Middle
East. Brookings experts have created innovative and
practical responses to counter ISIS's extremist ide-
ology and brutal campaigns. Senior Fellow 
Kenneth
Pollack, an authority on the political-military
dynamics of the Middle East and Gulf states, has
provided the White House and Congress with
feasible mechanisms for confronting ISIS. Within
the region, the Brookings Doha Center has con-
ducted extensive ground-level work on the con-
flict. Visiting Fellow Charles Lister's near real-
time analysis has covered ISIS and the complex
mosaic of other actors engaged in that struggle.
Salman Shaikh, director of the Brookings Doha
Center, has brought together leaders from
rival Syrian factions for a track 1.5 dialogue
that exemplifies Brookings's ability to tangibly
impact global events. Domestically, Brookings
scholars also have briefed and provided policy
proposals to, among others, the president, the
vice president, secretary of state, the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence, and the
Central Intelligence Agency.
"The rigour of
its research, the
expertise of its
many scholars
and its role
as a setting
for keynote
presentations
by major
policymakers
put Brookings
in the top tier
of think tanks
around the
world."
--Prospect Magazine,
Awarding Top Think
Tank for International
Affairs
Support for an Enhanced
Focus on Germany
W
ith its strong economy and skilled
diplomatic leadership, Germany
has assumed a major role in
defining economic, trade, and for-
eign policy for the European Union as a whole. To
help policymakers better understand the forces
shaping Germany and its critical role in Europe's
future and to deepen Brookings's expertise on
European and transatlantic affairs, the Robert
Bosch Stiftung made a generous gift to the Insti-
tution to establish a new senior fellowship. Con-
stanze Stelzenmuller was named the first Robert
Bosch Senior Fellow in 2014, working under the
auspices of the Center on the United States
and Europe. Dr. Stelzenmuller, a former writer
and editor of DIE ZEIT and former Berlin office
director and senior transatlantic fellow at the
German Marshall Fund, is an expert on German,
European, and transatlantic foreign and security
policy. Brookings is grateful to the 
Robert Bosch

Stiftung for its generous support of this impor-
tant position.
A Blueprint for a
New Policy toward Cuba
W
hen President Barack Obama
and Cuban President Raul Castro
announced the restoration of
Cuban-American diplomatic
relations, Senior Fellows Ted Piccone and Richard
Feinberg--Brookings's leading experts on U.S.-
Cuba relations--were in Havana on a research
trip. Unable to use their smart phones in Cuba
and eager for news of the decision, Piccone and
Feinberg rushed to the offices of the Reuters
news agency to learn more. Once at the Reuters
offices and able to reach the outside world,
Piccone and Feinberg were inundated with media
requests for commentary and analysis. Long
before this historic day--and in the days since--
Piccone has shared policy recommendations
directly with the White House, which incorporated
many of his ideas--including providing direct
assistance to Cuba's small businesses, relaxing
trade and financial barriers, and removing Cuba
from the list of state sponsors of terrorism--into
the blueprint for the U.S.'s new Cuba policy.
>
Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/foreignpolicy
and follow @BrookingsFP
To shape the public debate, the Institution
inaugurated the Brookings Debate Series, where
Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT) and Brookings
scholars openly debated deploying ground troops
to counter ISIS. Additionally, Brookings schol-
ars' incisive assessments of the Iran nuclear deal
have increased public awareness of the details of
that agreement. Supplementing the myriad calls
and press appearances, Senior Fellows Suzanne

Maloney and Robert Einhorn partnered with
Elaine Kamarck of Governance Studies for a web-
based discussion of the nuclear deal that, within
ten days of airing, had garnered over 8,000 views.
Furthermore, through the new Markaz blog,
edited by Maloney, leading experts from Brook-
ings and partner organizations have explored issues
such as developments in Iranian-Western relations
and counterterrorism strategies. Fellow William
McCants, director of the Project on U.S. Relations
with the Islamic World, led a Markaz debate with
former senior State Department officials on meth-
ods of countering ISIS social media propaganda,
the conduit for foreign fighter recruitment.
The Foreign Policy program worked closely
with the administration on February's White
House Summit on Countering Violent Extrem-
ism, including organizing a private roundtable to
help formulate the summit's agenda. Additionally,
White House staff invited five fellows from the
Center for Middle East Policy and Center for
21st Century Security and Intelligence to provide
expert input on summit content. At the State
Department's request, the program sponsored a
private roundtable on the role of religious educa-
tion in advancing multi-faith tolerance. McCants
and Nonresident Senior Fellow Peter Mandaville
hosted that meeting, and continue to contribute to
the State Department's preventing violent extrem-
ism agenda.
International Atomic
Energy Agency Secretary
General Yukiya Amano
(left) and Senior Fellow
Robert Einhorn confer
ahead of an Alan and
Jane Batkin International
Leaders Forum on the
IAEA's role in the Iranian
nuclear issue
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Robert Bosch Senior Fellow Constanze Stelzenmuller
(left) moderates a conversation on the U.S.-German
relationship with German Ambassador Peter Wittig
PHOTO
BY
RALPH
ALSWANG
Swedish Prime Minister
Stefan Lofven discusses
globalization in a time of
turmoil
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PETER
HALMAGYI
South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham speaks at the
Saban Forum
Brookings Trustee and
Chairman of the Foreign
Policy Leadership Council
Ben Jacobs listens as
Vice President of Foreign
Policy Bruce Jones
lays out the program's
research agenda for the
coming year
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
12 13
Global Economy and Development
nder the leadership of Vice Presi-
dent and Director Kemal Dervi
s, the
Edward M. Bernstein Scholar, and
Deputy Director Homi Kharas, experts
in the Global Economy and Devel-
opment program are focusing their
research and recommendations on how to better
manage globalization and fight poverty and social
stress.
The Global Economy
Global economic interdependence has contin-
ued to grow with technology, financial markets,
and trade linking individual countries in multiple
ways. Understanding this connection and working
on proposals aiming at win-win policies is at the
heart of the Global Economy and Development
program's efforts. One instrument has been the
Think Tank 20--a network of experts from policy
research organizations around the world who come
together to inform the debate around the G-20
summits. The report Growth, Convergence, and
Income Distribution: The Road from the Brisbane
G-20 Summit was released during the Australian
Presidency of the G-20 and examined these issues
from different perspectives, including chapters
on growth in Africa, deflation in Japan, the future
U
of the Eurozone, and sustainable growth in Latin
America, among other regional topics. Similarly,
Vice President and Director Kemal Dervi
s joined
with Peter Drysdale of Australia National Univer-
sity to publish The G-20 at Five, a book of selected
essays on topics that were on the G-20 agenda.
Over the past year, Europe, which still
accounts for about one-third of global GDP, has
been a source of particular concern, not least
because of the recurring Greek crisis. German
Federal Minister of Finance Wolfgang Schauble
came to Brookings to discuss the next steps in the
European project and how to manage the euro-
zone. To hear more on the Greek perspective, later
that same day Brookings welcomed then-Finance
Minister Yanis Varoufakis, who presented his very
different perspectives. Dervi
s has continued to
build on his work published last year, with the
future of the euro and of the European project
being a frequent topic in his Project Syndicate
articles.
Sustainable Development After 2015
The year 2015 has been a pivotal one for the
global community, punctuated by several high-
profile international gatherings of leading experts,
policymakers, and practitioners: UNESCO's World
Strengthening Drivers of
Sustainable Growth and Opportunity
"I'm confident
that we can
give all of
our girls the
education they
deserve. That's
why I'm here."
--First Lady Michelle
Obama, speaking at a
Center for Universal
Education event
Latin America
Macro
economic
Outlook
A
fter a golden
decade
of rapid
progress,
Latin America is
experiencing a new
socio-political and
economic landscape
that requires new
thinking on the
region's institutions,
macroeconomic
stability, and inclusive
growth. In partnership
with the Center for
the Study of Economic
and Social Affairs
(CERES) in Uruguay,
the Brookings Global-
CERES Economic and
Social Policy in Latin
America Initiative
(ESPLA) released
its annual flagship
report, Macroeconomic
Vulnerabilities in an
Uncertain World: One
Region, Three Latin
Americas, in fall 2014
on the margins of the
Annual Meetings of the
World Bank and the
International Monetary
Fund. Authored by
Nonresident Senior
Fellow and ESPLA
Director Ernesto Talvi,
the report argues
that Latin America
should be thought
of as three distinct
regions with three very
different sets of policy
challenges.
First Lady of the United States Michelle Obama discusses community-based solutions in girls'
education at a Center for Universal Education event
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Managing Director of the
International Monetary
Fund Christine Lagarde
(left) discusses the IMF's
role in financing the
post-2015 sustainable
development agenda
with Vice President of
Global Economy and
Development Kemal
Dervi
s
Nonresident Senior
Fellow Ernesto Talvi
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PETER ADAMS/GETTY IMAGES
14 15
Global Economy and Development
In Memoriam:
Mwangi
Kimenyi
B
rookings lost
a dear friend
and colleague
when Mwangi
S. Kimenyi passed
away in June. He joined
Brookings in 2009
as a Senior Fellow
in the Africa Growth
Initiative and served as
its director from 2010-
2014, during which time
he brought tremendous
enthusiasm and energy
to Brookings's study of
the continent and its
economic opportunities.
He helped build
an enterprise that
brings African voices
to the development
debate, established
partnerships with
African think tanks,
launched the successful
Africa Policy Dialogue
on the Hill, and
developed AGI's now-
signature publication,
Foresight Africa, which
provides an annual
look-ahead at the
big issues facing the
continent. All who had
the privilege to work
with Mwangi knew him
to be a serious and
thoughtful scholar and
a cheerful and kind
person. Brookings will
miss having him as part
of our community.
Future Development Blog
O
riginally hosted by the World Bank in 2013, the
Future Development blog, co-edited by Homi
Kharas, Deputy Director of Global Economy and
Development, and Shanta Devarajan and Wolfgang
Fengler, both of the World Bank, was moved to the Brookings
platform in 2015. Future Development seeks to inform and
stimulate debate on key development issues in an effort
to hold governments more accountable and offer solutions
to important development challenges. With frequent posts
by development experts from around the world, the blog
explores issues like urbanization, corruption, demographics,
and agriculture, among others.
Education Forum in Incheon, the Third Interna-
tional Financing for Development Conference in
Addis Ababa, and the Conference of Parties in
Paris to address climate change, among others.
These efforts offer a historic opportunity to ensure
that no one is left behind, support a new eco-
nomic model focused on low-carbon growth, and
instigate a better-governed globalization.
Brookings experts have been conducting
research and offering thoughtful analysis and rec-
ommendations to inform the debates over how to
achieve these critical development goals. Senior
Fellow and Deputy Director Homi Kharas, Senior
Fellow Amar Bhattacharya, and Senior Fellow John
Increased Focus on Africa
A
s one of Brookings's most generous
donors, the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation provides critical support
for work across the Institution and
also provides founding support for the Africa
Growth Initiative. In 2014, the Foundation made
a $3.75 million grant to the Global Economy
and Development program for work to advance
economic opportunity and positive development
outcomes for the world's most vulnerable
populations. Specifically, the grant supports
efforts to inform the post-2015 development
agenda and how it is shaped and financed,
U.S. leadership in global development, and the
Africa Growth Initiative's work to develop long-
term strategies for economic growth in the
region. Brookings is grateful for the support and
intellectual engagement of the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation.
>
Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/global
and follow @BrookingsGlobal
"I'd like to
thank The
Brookings
Institution for
its scholarship
and stellar
work on
Africa, in
particular
the African
Growth and
Opportunity
Act, ensuring
that the many
stakeholders
of AGOA on
the continent
of Africa
and here in
the U.S. are
informed
about the
importance of
AGOA for all
concerned."
--United States
Representative
Karen Bass Her Excellency Catherine Samba-Panza, President
of the Central African Republic, outlines the peace
and stabilization agenda of her country's transitional
government at a roundtable led by Senior Fellow Amadou
Sy, director of the African Growth Initiative (left)
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
McArthur were particularly engaged in inform-
ing the agenda, discussions, and outcomes of the
Financing for Development conference, participat-
ing in key meetings, consultations, and retreats
with various stakeholders. Kharas and McArthur
wrote an influential paper that outlined nine pri-
ority commitments--such as support for lower
middle-income and least developed countries,
investing in infrastructure, improving accounting
practices, and encouraging impact investing--for
the conference.
Universal Education:
Building Block for Development
Too many children in the developing world, espe-
cially girls and those living in conflict areas, have
only limited access to education. And even when
they are enrolled, the quality can be inconsistent
and external pressures often make it difficult to
complete schooling. But without adequate educa-
tion, individuals have a hard time reaching their
economic potential and improving outcomes for
their families and communities. Under the lead-
ership of Senior Fellow and Director Rebecca
Winthrop, experts in the Center for Universal
Education are pursuing a comprehensive research
and outreach agenda to educate policymakers on
how to achieve better learning outcomes and how
to scale up successful interventions so that they
reach more children.
On girls' education, Distinguished Fellow Julia
Gillard, former prime minister of Australia, joined
with the Clinton Global Initiative to announce the
launch of CHARGE--Collaborative for Harness-
ing Ambition and Resources for Girls Education,
a group of more than 30 public, private, and civil
society actors committed to investing more than
$600 million and aiming to reach nearly 14 million
girls by 2019. Efforts to improve and expand girls'
education got a major boost in attention from the
vocal support of First Lady Michelle Obama, who
has used her prominence to advance the cause.
The Center for Universal Education is working
as a knowledge partner with the White House on
the Let Girls Learn initiative that it launched to
encourage community-led solutions to helping
girls complete their education.
Secretary-General of the OECD Angel Gurria discusses
ways to address growing inequality through inclusive
growth
Deputy Director of Global Economy and
Development Homi Kharas speaks on
transitioning from "the developing world"
to "a developing world" in the Kapuscinski
Development Lecture in Riga, Latvia
Mwangi Kimenyi
Amina Mohammed, Special
Advisor to the Secretary-
General on Post-2015
Development Planning,
presents recommendations
from The Road to Dignity
by 2030: Ending Poverty,
Transforming All Lives, and
Protecting the Planet, a major
new report from the UN
PHOTO
BY
ALEX
IRVIN
PHOTO
BY
SHARON
FARMER
PHOTO
BY
SHARON
FARMER
PHOTO
BY
OECD
Former President of Ireland Mary Robinson
moderates a panel on opportunities and challenges
for development cooperation at the 2015 Brookings
Blum Roundtable on Global Poverty
PHOTO
BY
KAPUSCINSKI
DEVELOPMENT
LECTURES
16 17
Governance Studies
T
Independent Research
for Improving Governance
hroughout the year, Governance
Studies scholars delivered important
research and practical policy solutions
on key issues from technology to edu-
cation, from national security to health
care to political campaigns and elec-
tions, and from marijuana policy to the influence
of billionaires on politics. Scholars testified before
Congress and were interviewed by major news
outlets, providing fact-based analysis to policymak-
ers and the public.
Policies for Emerging Technologies
Advances in technology often get ahead of the
policies designed to regulate them. For instance,
the field of robotics raises important questions
around privacy, liability, and safety, among other
concerns. As automation and artificial intelligence
become increasingly sophisticated, benefits will
need to be weighed against their effect on work-
ers, workforce development, and privacy. Experts
in the Center for Technology Innovation, founded
and led by Governance Studies Vice President and
Director Darrell West, the Douglas Dillon Chair,
are wrestling with these questions and formulating
policy recommendations to protect consumers and
ensure a competitive commercial landscape.
The spread of smartphones and cellular net-
works is creating new opportunities for poor and
rural communities to access government benefits
and financial services previously unavailable to
them. Through the Financial and Digital Inclusion
Project, West and Nonresident Senior Fellow John
Villasenor are looking at how technologies such as
mobile money can bring marginalized populations
into the mainstream of commerce. The Project's
first report analyzed 21 politically, economically,
and geographically diverse countries to evaluate
each nation's commitment and progress on finan-
cial inclusion.
The Future of Financial
Aid for Higher Education
Education costs are increasingly out of reach for
many families, raising barriers to getting additional
training that could lead to better jobs and higher
pay. At the same time, the growing role of tech-
nology in the workplace and the importance of
advanced industries to the economy place a pre-
mium on workers' skills, especially in the STEM
fields. As a result, financial aid plays an ever-more
important role in access to higher education.
There has been a growing concern about
increasing levels of student debt and the ability
The Professor
and the
President
F
acing an

oppositional
Congress
when he
assumed the presi-
dency in 1969, Presi-
dent Richard Nixon
made the risky deci-
sion to appoint a
prominent Democrat
to his White House
staff. His choice
was Daniel Patrick
Moynihan
, a liberal
professor from the Ivy
League, whom Nixon
selected as his top
urban affairs adviser.
What developed was
a strong professional
and political relation-
ship, as well as a close
personal friendship.
In his new book, The
Professor and the
President: 
Daniel

Patrick 
Moynihan in
the Nixon White House,
Senior Fellow Emeritus

Stephen Hess pulls
back the curtain on
perhaps one of the
most unexpected and
unusual pairings in
Washington during
that era. Hess, who
worked with both
Moynihan and Nixon
in the White House,
details the dynamics
between the two and
the passionate debates
that took place behind
closed doors.
"It's great to
be here at
Brookings. One
of the really
significant
functions that
this Institution
provides
is to be a
place where
policymakers
and the public
can interact
on important
issues."
--Tom Wheeler,
Chairman, Federal
Communications
Commission
FBI Director James
Comey (right) and Senior
Fellow Benjamin Wittes
listen to an audience
question during an event
on the intersection of
technology, privacy, and
public safety
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
CHRIS
MADDALONI
Senior Fellow E.J. Dionne, Jr. (left) listens as Representative Nancy Pelosi
discusses financial security for middle class families
ECHO/GETTY IMAGES
18 19
Governance Studies
Investing in a
Stronger Democracy
R
epairing the political system to make
American democracy function more
effectively is a core part of the Gov-
ernance Studies program's mission.
With the support of the William & Flora Hewlett
Foundation, Brookings launched the Strengthen-
ing American Democracy Initiative in 2013 under
the leadership of Senior Fellow Elaine Kamarck,
founding director of the Center for Effective
Public Management. The Initiative examines a
set of issues that feed into the partisanship that
has hobbled decisionmaking in Washington and
proposes reforms that can restore efficiency
and effectiveness to government. The Hewlett
Foundation made a new $1.5 million grant to
Governance Studies to continue this work with a
focus on institutional innovation, electoral reform
and representation, and strengthening the role
of the news media in fostering accountability and
transparency. Brookings is grateful to the William
& Flora Hewlett Foundation for its generous sup-
port of this important work.
Making an Impact
on Marijuana Reform
W
hen Oregon, Alaska, and the
District of Columbia passed mea-
sures to legalize recreational
marijuana in 2014, they joined
Colorado and Washington in defying federal drug
laws to institute a new regulatory regime that
promised greater justice for minority populations
and fiscal benefits from reduced policing costs
and new tax revenues. Adding these jurisdic-
tions to the 19 others that have legalized medical
cannabis, it becomes clear that voters in a large
swath of the United States are reconsidering the
value and effectiveness of the "War on Drugs"
and its impact on vulnerable communities. Fel-
lows John Hudak and Philip Wallach have written
extensively on the issues that have been raised
by various levels of legalization and the tensions
between federal, state, and local laws. As gov-
ernments grapple with how to regulate growing,
selling, and use of marijuana, Wallach and Hudak
have provided analysis and recommendations
through the 420 Series of the widely read FixGov
blog. Marijuana policy will be a closely watched
issue in the 2016 presidential election and in
referenda in a number of states, making their
research timely and important in educating the
electorate and policymakers.
>
Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/governance
and follow @BrookingsGOV
"Brookings
has a long and
proud history
of tackling
difficult public
policy issues
and fostering
robust public
debate."
--Kara Stein,
Commissioner,
Securities and Exchange
Commission
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) outlines his "Agenda
for America" to address the nation's most pressing
economic challenges
to repay loans. This debate prompted then-Senior
Fellow and Research Director of the Brown Cen-
ter on Education Policy Matthew Chingos and
Fellow Beth Akers to take an evidence-based look
at how student loan debt levels and incomes have
evolved between 1989 and 2010. They found that,
while average debt levels had increased signifi-
cantly, the returns to education in higher incomes
more than offset larger monthly payments. As
Congress considered reauthorization of the Higher
Education Act in 2015, Akers testified before
the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Educa-
tion, Labor, and Pensions on ways to help ensure
that students are taking on debt in a responsible,
informed manner to encourage investments in
education while minimizing risk of an unsustain-
able financial burden.
Seeking Justice for All
From Ferguson, Missouri, to Staten Island, New
York, fatal encounters between police officers and
minority citizens brought long-simmering tensions
to the surface across the U.S. Communities of
color have long complained of their unfair treat-
ment at the hands of law enforcement, but these
cases and others like them, and the protests that
followed, raised important questions about how
police interact with minorities, especially African
Americans, and the criminal justice system.
To help address these questions, Nonresident
Senior Fellow Fredrick Harris moderated an event
that included, among other panelists, Delroy
Burton, chairman of the D.C. Police Union. The
discussion focused on policing in modern-day
America and reforms that could improve relation-
ships between law enforcement and citizens,
with an eye on lessons learned from recent highly
charged incidents and recommendations for how
to improve interactions in the future.
PHOTO
BY
CHRIS
MADDALONI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
SHARON
FARMER
Senator Lamar
Alexander (R-TN)
shares his views
on the future of
school choice at a
Brown Center on
Education Policy event
launching the annual
Education Choice and
Competition Index
Former Indiana Governor
and Office of Management
and Budget Director
Mitch Daniels makes the
case for higher education
reform at a Brown Center
for Education Policy event
Nonresident Senior Fellow Fredrick Harris (left) discusses race and policing after
Ferguson on a panel with Delroy Burton, chairman of the D.C. Police Union
Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear (left) and Fellow John Hudak exchange ideas
on good governance lessons from the states prior to an event that also included
Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Vice President
and Director of
Governance Studies
Darrell M. West (right)
escorts Federal
Communications
Commission Chairman
Tom Wheeler to an
event on maximizing
the benefits of
broadband
20 21
Metropolitan Policy
M
Harnessing the Power of Cities
to Drive Innovation and Opportunity
etropolitan areas are at the heart of
the American economy. They bring
the most important ingredients for
economic growth--human capital,
infrastructure, research, and innova-
tion--into close proximity and leverage
them into productive enterprises. At the same time,
many cities face challenges in education, affordable
housing, and poverty that make it difficult to fully
capitalize on their potential for sustainable, inclusive
growth. The Metropolitan Policy Program works with
public and private sector stakeholders across the
country and, increasingly, across the globe to over-
come these challenges and build on their assets to
maximize benefits to their communities.
Advanced Industries
Powering Economic Growth
Two of the defining characteristics of an

innovation-based economy are the intensity of
research and development investment and the preva-
lence of high-knowledge STEM workers. "America's
Advanced Industries: What They Are, Where
They Are, and Why They Matter," a new report by
Senior Fellow and Director of Policy Mark Muro
and Fellow Jonathan Rothwell, takes a close look at
industries that have both of these features--R&D
spending per worker in the 80th percentile and a
share of STEM workers above the national average.
The authors find that the 50 manufacturing, energy,
high-tech, and services sectors that meet these cri-
teria have special importance to America's future.
The report reveals the scale of the contributions
that advanced industries make to the U.S. economy,
contributing 17% of GDP despite employing only
9% of the workforce. Clustered largely in major
metropolitan areas, these industries also support
extensive supply chains and supporting businesses
that, all together, account for nearly a quarter of
U.S. employment. Jobs in advanced industries are
comparatively high paying across a range of educa-
tion levels and are extremely productive. Looking
forward, though, the U.S. is losing ground to other
nations in advanced industry competitiveness and,
the authors conclude, there needs to be a renewed
commitment to innovation, improved workforce
training, and an intentional approach by public and
private sector actors to foster an environment where
these industries can thrive.
Understanding Place,
Race, and Opportunity
In August 2014, unrest engulfed the St. Louis
suburb of Ferguson, Missouri, after Michael
Understand-
ing the
Impact of
Changing
Demographics
I
n his new book,
Diversity Explo-
sion: How New
Racial Demo-
graphics are Remaking
America, internation-
ally renowned demog-
rapher and Brookings
Senior Fellow Bill
Frey takes a detailed
look at the dramatic
growth of minority
populations in the
U.S. America has long
regarded itself as
the world's melting
pot, where people of
all cultures are part
of a unique, blended
society. The longtime
population dominance
of white Americans
will soon give way
to a nation with no
racial majority, where
the social, economic,
and political impact
of non-whites will be
increasingly important.
Using innovative maps
and charts to comple-
ment a sophisticated
analysis, Diversity
Explosion explores
how a new generation
of young minorities is
infusing an aging labor
force with vitality and
innovation.
PHOTO
BY
DARREN
JACKLIN
PHOTO
BY
RALPH
ALSWANG
Vice President and
Co-Director of the
Metropolitan Policy
Program Bruce Katz,
Mayor of London Boris
Johnson, and Mayor
of San Diego Kevin
Faulconer (from left)
prepare to take the
stage at a Global Cities
Initiative event on the
challenges of governing
global cities for growth
Senior Fellow and Co-Director of the Metropolitan Policy Program Amy Liu (center) learns about workforce training
innovation up close at a Siemens Training Center in Nuremberg, Germany, during a Global Cities Initiative study
tour of Bavaria. With her are a Siemens trainee (left) and Karin Norington-Reaves of Cook County Works in Chicago
"You have
to have the
right set of
partners to
move forward
an ambitious
economic
development
agenda, and
we have the
perfect partners
assembled
today. The
entire city of
Indianapolis is
grateful to be
a part of the
Global Cities
Initiative."
--The Honorable Greg
Ballard, Mayor of
Indianapolis
TOM COCKREM/GETTY IMAGES
22 23
Metropolitan Policy
Brown, an unarmed teenager, was shot and killed
by a police officer. Fellow Elizabeth Kneebone
discussed the economic and social backdrop for
those protests in "Ferguson, Mo. Emblematic of
Growing Suburban Poverty." Ferguson exempli-
fies the sharp increase in suburban poverty that
has occurred in almost every major metropolitan
area since 2000, which Kneebone explored with
Senior Fellow and Deputy Director Alan Berube in
their 2013 book, Confronting Suburban Poverty in
America.
In May 2015, shortly after Freddie Gray of
Baltimore died of injuries he sustained while in
police custody, prompting protests nationwide, the
Metropolitan Policy Program published a series
of blog posts examining the concentrated poverty
that still plagues neighborhoods like Baltimore's

Sandtown-Winchester. Fellow Jennifer Vey situ-
ated that community's experiences against the
backdrop of its relatively affluent metropolitan
area in "The Challenges of Baltimore (and the
Nation) in Context." In "Good Fortune, Dire
Poverty, and Inequality in Baltimore: An Ameri-
can Story," Berube and Nonresident Fellow Brad
McDearman provided 10 charts that illustrate
inner-city Baltimore's issues both regionally and
nationally. And in "Beyond Baltimore: Building on
What We Know to Create Neighborhood Oppor-
tunities," Senior Fellow and Co-Director Amy Liu
discussed policy solutions for connecting people
in areas of high poverty to economic opportunity
and jobs.
Finally, at a May 21 "Baltimore and Beyond"
policy forum, panelists with extensive on-the-
ground experience in creating opportunity in the
Investing in Innovation
and Placemaking
W
ith the support of a $2 million gift
from Brookings Trustee Robert
Bass and Anne Bass, Brookings
launched the Anne T. and Robert
M. Bass Initiative on Innovation and Placemaking.
Along with the New York-based Project for Public
Spaces, long-time advocates of the community-
led placemaking movement, Brookings experts
are developing a new city-building paradigm that
emphasizes the reinforcing benefits of vibrant
public spaces and innovative urban economies.
Through research, on-the-ground projects,
and new analytic, financial, and policy tools, the
Bass Initiative will help cities and suburbs develop
mixed-use, entrepreneurial communities cen-
tered around assets such as advanced research
universities, medical campuses, historic ware-
houses and waterfronts, main streets, and public
markets. By channeling the benefits of proximity,
density and authenticity--"cityness"--these hubs
can strengthen cities' innovative economies and
reanimate public spaces, making communities
more resilient and inclusive, and helping them
to become high-quality places in which to live,
work, and play. Brookings is grateful to Robert
and Anne Bass for their generous and far-sighted
investment in this important work.
Reshaping Workforce Training
D
emand-driven workforce strategies have garnered increased atten-
tion for their potential to connect more workers to better-paying
jobs, while ensuring that employers have access to an adequate
pool of labor. Building on regional strategy work supported by
the Brookings-Rockefeller Project on State and Metropolitan Innovation, a
group of twelve Louisville manufacturers joined together to adopt a prom-
ising apprenticeship model developed at a nearby Toyota manufacturing
facility. Nearly two dozen participants will start the Louisville program this
fall, attending classes at a local community college while gaining real-world
experience with participating manufacturers. To spur the adoption of more
employer-driven skills strategies to support advanced industries, Brookings
traveled with a delegation of 40 leaders to Munich and Nuremberg, Germany,
in November as part of the Global Cities Initiative: A Joint Project of Brook-
ings and JPMorgan Chase. Participants toured Siemens and Seidenader plants,
observing apprentices at work on the factory floor, and exchanging insights
with high-level German and industry leaders.
>
Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/metro
and follow @BrookingsMetro
PHOTO
BY
RALPH
ALSWANG
face of entrenched poverty, long-term disinvest-
ment, and racial divides came together to discuss
policy initiatives that have worked in Baltimore,
Philadelphia, Chicago, and other communities.
The Metropolitan Policy Program will continue
to provide research and lift up solutions that help
reduce stark divides by place and race in our cities
and metro areas.
Mapping Employment and
Output around the World
The world's 300 largest metropolitan economies
have only 20% of the population, but account for
nearly half of global economic output. Under-
standing the growth patterns of these thriving
places offers valuable insights into where and why
incomes and standards of living are rising and
labor market opportunity is most concentrated.
Alan Berube worked with Research Analyst Joe
Parilla and Tao Ran, a nonresident senior fellow in
the Foreign Policy program, to develop the Global
Metro Monitor, a report and interactive map that
uses a combination of change in employment and
GDP per capita to chart the economic recovery
across the world. Among its key findings is that
developing country metropolitan economies fea-
ture faster growth than their developed peers, with
those specializing in commodities outperforming
those with high concentrations of business, finan-
cial, and professional services. Further, the data
reveal that metropolitan economies power their
larger national economies, with 60% of the top
300 having recovered their pre-recession levels of
employment growth and GDP per capita.
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
RALPH
ALSWANG
Diagram of freight flows to and from major U.S. cities
and their global trading partners from the "Mapping
Freight" report by Fellow Adie Tomer and Senior Policy
and Research Assistant Joseph Kane
Governor of Virginia Terry
McAuliffe (right) discusses
advanced industries in his state
with Senior Fellow and Policy
Director of the Metropolitan
Policy Program Mark Muro
Brookings Trustees Bob Bass and Victoria P. Sant
discuss the Metropolitan Policy Program's agenda
with Vice President and Co-Director Bruce Katz at
the March Board meeting
Director of Leadership
Development and
Graduate Leadership
at YouthBuild USA
Joel Miranda (center)
discusses ways to create
opportunity for young
people and families in
distressed neighborhoods,
as Former Chairman
and CEO of Enterprise
Community Partners
Frederick (Bart) Harvey
(left) and President and
CEO of the Reinvestment
Fund Donald Hinkle-Brown
listen
Co-Director of the Metropolitan Policy Program Amy
Liu, Rockefeller Foundation President Judith Rodin,
and Vice President and Co-Director of the Metropolitan
Policy Program Bruce Katz (from left) prior to the
launch of Rodin's new book, The Resilience Dividend:
Being Strong in a World Where Things Go Wrong
"I'm so happy
that Brookings
Metro is
taking up
the challenge
of race and
opportunity
at the highest
levels."
--Darren Walker,
President, Ford
Foundation
25
24
Brookings's Centenary
Brookings's Centenary
s Brookings crosses the threshold of
its centenary in 2016, the Institution
will celebrate its rich history, show-
case its many contributions to the
management of pressing public policy
challenges, and launch initiatives and
innovations that will ensure our ability to build on
our legacy to shape the future.
From its inception, Brookings scholars have
played a significant role in developing important
economic, security, and social policies. They have
helped put in place the framework for the mod-
ern federal budget, mobilize the nation for World
War II, design the Marshall Plan, implement the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, provide the
underpinnings of the Tax Reform Act of 1986,
make the case for major welfare reform legislation,
put forth proposals for new homeland security and
intelligence operations following the 9/11 terrorist
attacks, generate ideas for healthcare reform, and
facilitate progress in U.S.-Cuba relations.
The need for ideas that matter and solutions
that work is just as urgent now as it has ever been,
and our audiences and constituencies are vastly
larger because of the digital age and the communi-
cations revolution. Brookings has moved swiftly in
the use of social media, and we have plans under-
A
way to take advantage of ways not just to inform
citizens of nations around the world, but to engage
them in virtual conversation with our scholars.
Having that ability will not only expand our global
reach but enrich the quality of our work.
To the same end, Brookings is leveraging the
breadth and depth of expertise in its scholar ranks
through interdisciplinary approaches to com-
plicated, multi-faceted problems. As traditional
political, economic, and security systems change
and, in many cases, weaken in response to shift-
ing circumstances and innovation, Brookings must
work with the public and private sectors to help
policy keep pace with a changing world.
Among our plans for 2016, Brookings will
convene events for supporters and stakeholders
in Washington and other cities across the country
and abroad. The Brookings Press is honoring the
Institution's most notable authors by republishing
their groundbreaking works, with new introduc-
tions by distinguished scholars, thereby making
these Brookings Classics available to a new gen-
eration of readers as well as to scholars and inter-
ested citizens who will find much that is relevant
today. The Press is also launching a new series
of A Short History of... books that give essential
background on key issues and policy debates.
Our centenary also marks the end of the Sec-
ond Century Campaign, a historic effort to bolster
Brookings's capacity to meet the great policy chal-
lenges of our time. The entire Institution will be
working to ensure that our hundredth year repre-
The Brookings
Institution was
headquartered on
Jackson Place NW
in Washington from
1932-1959
PHOTOS: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION ARCHIVES
Robert S. Brookings
Economic Studies Senior Fellow Joseph Pechman (center) leads a Friday Lunch,
an informal weekly gathering of scholars and staff to discuss current research and
pressing issues
United States President Lyndon Johnson (right) and
Brookings President Robert D. Calkins at the Brookings
50th Anniversary Celebration in 1966
Isabel and Robert
Brookings in 1928
Senior Fellows Edward R. Fried, Alice Rivlin, Charles Schultze, and Nancy Teeters working on the Setting
National Priorities project, circa 1973
sents Brookings at its nimble best, and leaves our
supporters, constituents and colleagues inspired
and determined to make the most of the first year
of Brookings's second century.
The Second Century Campaign
27
26
Building a Foundation for Innovative Thinking
he pace of change in the world today
puts tremendous demands on decision-
makers. The global economy has grown
so interconnected that developments in
far-away countries can instantaneously
reverberate in financial markets across
the world. A terrorist attack can have an immediate
impact on stability and international relationships.
A new technology can disrupt old practices and
create previously unimagined business opportuni-
ties. Responding effectively to new developments
around the globe requires nimble thinking and
quick action.
As an Institution that works at the intersec-
tion of breaking news and long-term trends,
Brookings continually works to ensure that its
research agenda reflects the most pressing issues.
This means being flexible and ready to marshal
resources when it counts. The priorities that ani-
mated the Second Century Campaign's $600 mil-
lion goal when it was officially launched in 2009
haven't changed, but the specific topics that Brook-
ings experts are working on have. The Campaign
is a living, dynamic undertaking that seeks to build
a solid foundation for Brookings to carry out the
important work of addressing national and global
challenges with practical, effective solutions.
T
The most important investment in this founda-
tion is in the people--senior fellows, fellows, and
visiting scholars--who are conducting research
and developing solutions to the hardest problems
on the global agenda. That's why the focus of the
Campaign through its conclusion at the end of
2016 remains on the durable resources that enable
Brookings to recruit and retain the best talent in
policy research, increase the diversity of the staff,
and build a strong bench of rising stars.
The Brookings strategic plan, unveiled as a
draft in November 2015, sharpens the vision of
how the Institution will position itself going for-
ward. A successful Second Century Campaign
sets the foundation for bringing the plan to life,
ensuring that the rigorous, independent research
of Brookings experts continues to resonate with
policymakers and business and community leaders
facing their own pressing challenges.
PHOTO BY PAUL MORIGI
Chair of the Second
Century Campaign and
Vice Chair of the Board
Glenn Hutchins (left)
with Brookings President
Strobe Talbott
Trustees Benjamin
Jacobs and Cheryl
Cohen Effron, who
completed her term
as chair of the
Development Committee
in 2015
Trustee John White takes
part in a conversation on
the Governance Studies
program's research agenda
Trustees Paul Cejas, Andrew Tisch, and Alfy Fanjul (from left)
Trustees Art Collins
(left) and Pete Higgins
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
28 29
Support for Brookings
B
Supporting Solutions by Investing in People
rookings's supporters contribute much
more than just financial resources to
the success of the Institution. Their
active engagement with Brookings
experts on the full range of policy
issues enriches the research, grounding
it in real-world experiences. That is what makes
the various opportunities for dialogue--whether
at a Brookings Council event, on a conference
call, or during a panel discussion--so important.
The exchange of ideas and perspectives between
Brookings experts and donors is an essential part
of the atmosphere of intellectual freedom that
defines the Brookings approach to scholarship.
Being able to road-test ideas and hear feedback on
their strengths and shortcomings makes for better
policy recommendations.
Major Support for the Center
for Universal Education
The Center for Universal Education, led by Senior
Fellow Rebecca Winthrop, conducts a range of
research and activities to help solve the challenge
of achieving quality education for all children in
the developing world, especially girls and children
in conflict zones. The Center's work informs the
policy agendas of multilateral agencies, NGOs,
Changing Leadership of the
Development Committee
I
n May 2015, Art Collins succeeded Cheryl
Cohen Effron as chair of the Development
Committee of the Board. Cheryl led this
important committee for more than five
years, a period during which Brookings's annual
budget grew by 25% and the Second Century
Campaign was officially launched. Brookings is
grateful to Cheryl for her leadership and dedica-
tion to ensuring that the Institution has the finan-
cial resources to fulfill its mission.
PHOTO BY PAUL MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Vice Chair of the Board Suzanne Nora Johnson welcomes Trustees to the
May Board meeting
Trustee Daniel Yergin,
with Roger Sant and
Co-Chair of the Board
David Rubenstein
(from left)
Co-Chair of the Board John Thornton (left) and Trustee Philip Knight during the Board
business meeting in March
Trustee and Co-Chair of the International Advisory
Council Antoine van Agtmael shares his thoughts on
the last two years of the Obama administration
Brookings President Strobe Talbott (left) and Trustee Leonard D. Schaeffer
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Trustee Bea Welters
takes part in a
discussion of the
Global Economy and
Development
program's research
agenda
Trustee Betsy Z. Cohen
(right) and Co-Chair
of the Board John
Thornton participate
in a breakout session
on the future research
agenda of the
Economic Studies
program
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
30 31
Support for Brookings
and national governments around the world seek-
ing to identify what works and how to scale up
and finance successful programs. Recent activi-
ties have gone beyond efforts to ensure access to
schooling to focus on the importance of learning
that students are doing.
This year the LEGO Foundation made a gen-
erous two-year, $4 million grant to support new
work on making sure that "soft skills" like execu-
tive function and critical thinking are equally as
valued as "hard skills" like literacy and numeracy,
since children need both to thrive. Through a pro-
gram of rigorous research that informs the global
dialogue around the key elements of quality edu-
cation, the Center and the LEGO Foundation will
bring complementary strengths to bear on promot-
ing the value of holistic learning.
Advancing the Metropolitan Revolution
Experts in the Metropolitan Policy Program have
identified a metropolitan revolution that is reshap-
ing how cities and metropolitan areas are foster-
ing economic growth. The pre-Great Recession
economic model that centered on consumption
and debt is giving way to a new paradigm that can
meet the challenge of remaining competitive in a
highly integrated global economy. With the fed-
eral government mired in partisanship and many
state governments adrift, it is local leaders in the
public and private sector who are taking the steps
to forge trade ties, upgrade workforce skills, and
remake their downtowns to promote innovation
and prosperity.
The Kresge Foundation, a longtime supporter
of the Metro Program, made a new $2.25 million
grant to support research and network-building
activities to advance this metropolitan revolution.
Brookings Society Engages Rising Leaders
T
he Robert S. Brookings Society gives emerging leaders exclusive
opportunities to participate in interactive discussions with Brook-
ings experts on a range of priority issues. With members in four
cities, the Society has grown rapidly in recent years. Membership is
offered only through the recommendation of a current member of the Society
or the Brookings Council, building a community of future leaders who are pas-
sionate about policy.
This year's events included Society members exchanging views on the
role of the U.S. Dollar in global finance with Senior Fellow Eswar Prasad, New
Century Chair in International Trade and Economics, and discussing global
development after 2015 with Senior Fellow John MacArthur. They also took
part in a conversation on strengthening the financial system between David
Wessel, director of the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy, and
Matthew Rutherford, former Acting Under Secretary for Domestic Finance at
the U.S. Treasury. In January Senior Fellow Shadi Hamid spoke with Society
members about Islamic extremism.
Going forward, the Brookings Society will continue to build on the momen-
tum with a robust schedule of events featuring prominent Brookings experts.
The strength of the Society is the thoughtful contributions from its members
to the policy debate, and Brookings is grateful for their active participation in
the intellectual life of the Institution.
Witnessing India's Transition, Up Close
N
arendra Modi's landslide victory as India's 15th prime minister
ushered in a new era of optimism that he could effectively tackle
the nation's long to-do list. From reforming the nation's health
care and bureaucratic systems to upgrading the infrastructure to
managing relations with China, Pakistan, and the United States, his reputa-
tion as a can-do executive would be tested early in the new administration. To
give members of the Board of Trustees, International Advisory Council, and
other friends of the Institution an opportunity to see the country's progress
up close, Brookings undertook its second study tour to India in six years. The
trip was led by President Strobe Talbott, then-Vice President of Foreign Policy
Martin Indyk, and India Project Director Tanvi Madan, along with Chairman
Vikram Mehta and Research Director Subir Gokarn of Brookings India.
With stops in New Delhi, Bengaluru (formerly Bangalore), Mumbai, and
Jodhpur, the traveling delegation met with a variety of public and private sec-
tor leaders who provided unique insights into the economic, social, and foreign
policy priorities shaping India's future. The business leaders the group met
with were bullish on India's future, but they highlighted the urgency of reforms
to increase efficiency, improve education, and foster export-driven growth
including through enhanced infrastructure investment. With Indian foreign
policy and commercial interests expanding in scope, there was considerable
discussion about East Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, even as China and Pak-
istan continue to demand policymakers' attention. The U.S.-India relationship
was a recurring theme, as part of a strong international order, as an economic
partner, and as a balancer to the Chinese giant on their border.
While some of the group visited Agra to see the Taj Mahal, the study tour
formally ended with a return to Delhi and flights home. The travelers took with
them a deeper understanding of India, its challenges, and its aspirations.
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Trustees Alan Batkin, Ann Fudge, and Bart Friedman
confer on prospective Trustee candidates during
a meeting of the Nominations and Governance
Committee of the Board
Maharaja Gaj Singh and Brookings President Strobe Talbott welcome former
Member of the Indian Parliament N.K. Singh (from left) to the Umaid Bhawan
Palace in Jodhpur
Trustee James Murren (right) listens to an update on
Brookings's work on the post-2015 development agenda
from Senior Fellow and Deputy Director of Global
Economy and Development Homi Kharas
Trustee James Rogers
shares his views on the
future of energy production
as part of a panel discussion
on economic growth and
climate change
Trustee Peter Scher frames the conversation at the
outset of a Global Cities Initiative event
Brookings Mountain West
T
his year, Brookings and the University of
Nevada, Las Vegas renewed the Brook-
ings Mountain West initiative through
2019, a partnership launched in 2010.
Through research, outreach across the region,
and the unique Brookings Curriculum for UNLV
students, Brookings Mountain West advances cru-
cial policy recommendations on issues affecting
Las Vegas, the state of Nevada, and the Mountain
West region as a whole and brings rigorous policy
research to the university's students. The partner-
ship brings Brookings experts from across the
Institution to UNLV for one-week residencies that
include lectures, meeting with local policymakers
and media, and collaborating with counterparts at
the University on a variety of research projects. The
new resources will enable expanded efforts in all of
these areas and allow Brookings to contribute con-
structive solutions to the policy challenges facing
this important region.
PHOTO
BY
SARAH
MERIANS
PHOTOGRAPHY
&
VIDEO
COMPANY
Brookings Society members Christopher Koza, Andrew Klaber, Jackie Carter,
Philip Piro, and John Zacharias (from left) at the annual Brookings-by-the-Sea
reception in the Hamptons
32 33
Support for Brookings
In Memoriam
B
rookings lost two long-time members of
the Board of Trustees this year. John C.
Whitehead and Samuel Pisar were valued
members of the Brookings community
and brought tremendous leadership and wise
counsel to the governance of the Institution.
John C. Whitehead
1922-2015
Johnserved as a Trustee for more than 25 years,
including as chairman from 1992-94. He brought
energy, dedication, and a powerful intellect to his
leadership of Brookings. He was unfailingly gener-
ous with his time and was actively engaged with
scholars across the Institution. In recognition of his
service to the Institution and the country, Brook-
ings established the John C. Whitehead Senior
Fellowship in International Diplomacy, which is cur-
rently held by Jeff Bader in the John L. Thornton
China Center. Through a generous gift to Brook-
ings, he endowed the John C. and Nancy D. White-
head Chair, which is currently held by Gary Burtless
in Economic Studies. Throughout his long career,
John was known for his integrity, philanthropy, and
public spirit and he enriched the worldaround him.
Samuel Pisar
1929-2015
Sam contributed his global perspective and gener-
ous spirit to his 25-year affiliation with Brookings
and greatly valued his service on the Board. An
international lawyer, author, and diplomat, he served
as UNESCO's ambassador and special envoy for
holocaust and genocide education. Sam was born in
Poland and survived Auschwitz and other Nazi death
camps; he was awarded American citizenship by a
special Act of Congress. His public service included
time as an advisor to the State Department, the
Senate Committee on Foreign Commerce, and the
Joint Economic Committee of Congress, as well as
President Kennedy's Task Force on Foreign Eco-
nomic Policy, and the International Olympic Commit-
tee. Sam was a true citizen of the world and brought
great joy to all who knew him.
Brookings Welcomes
Two New Trustees
B
rookings elected two new Trustees to the
Board in 2015. They join a distinguished
group of leading business executives,
academics, and community leaders
who help govern the affairs of the Institution.
The Board, which meets three times per year,
approves the fields of scholarly investigation and
safeguards the independence of the Institution's
work. Brookings welcomes its newest members to
the Board of Trustees:
Victor Hymes
Chief Executive
Officer and Chief
Investment Officer
Legato Capital
Management LLC
Arne Sorenson
President and
Chief Executive
Officer
Marriott
International, Inc.
The Foundation's previous investments made pos-
sible work on revitalizing older industrial cities
that helped identify important economic trends
and define the future focus of the Metro Program.
With this generous support, Metro's experts will
continue developing and articulating a compelling
vision for the next economy.
Understanding Global
Trends and Regional Shifts
The business community has a major stake in
understanding the global trends that are shaping
the economics and strategic relationships of nations
around the world. The middle class is growing in
emerging countries, while it comes under increasing
strain in many advanced economies. Technology is
advancing at a breathtaking pace, but productivity
growth is slowing. The effects of climate change
are becoming more evident, but carbon emissions
continue to grow. Knowing how to adapt to these
changes is essential to mitigating threats and capi-
talizing on opportunities.
With the support of a $1.5 million gift from
Liberty Mutual, Brookings experts are undertak-
ing an ambitious research agenda to make sense
of what is happening in the most dynamic nations
and regions and how they are interacting on eco-
nomic and security issues. Liberty Mutual was
instrumental in helping Brookings launch the
Latin America Initiative, making a five-year, $2.5
million grant to expand work on this important
region. The relationship has continued to build
from there and Brookings is grateful for the impor-
tant investments that have made so much impor-
tant work possible.
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz speaks with Vice
Chair of the Board Suzanne Nora Johnson following the
Secretary's remarks at the March Board meeting
Trustees Benjamin Jacobs, Tom Ramey, and AB Culvahouse (from left) discuss
progress in the strategic planning process
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Trustee Ezra Zilkha (right)
catches up with Trustee
Crandall Bowles before a
Board meeting session
Trustee and Co-Chair of
the International Advisory
Council Paul Desmarais,
Jr. makes welcoming
remarks at the Council's
tenth annual meeting
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Chair Emeritus James
Johnson (left) discusses
Brookings's research
agenda with Trustee
Victoria P. Sant during
a break between Board
meeting sessions
Trustee Dominic
Barton (left)
moderates a
panel discussion
on advanced
industries in the
U.S. that also
included PACCAR
Chief Executive
Officer Ron
Armstrong
PHOTO
BY
RALPH
ALSWANG
34 35
International Advisory Council
or ten years, the Brookings International
Advisory Council has brought together
business and community leaders from
across the world to share perspectives
and seek solutions to the most pressing
global challenges. Now numbering 36
members from 25 countries on six continents, the
Council brings critical perspectives to its research
agenda and expands its impact. Members of the
Council engage with Brookings experts at an
annual meeting in the spring and throughout the
year in Washington and in their home countries.
In 2015, the Council convened for its tenth
annual meeting, which included a series of brief-
ings from senior policymakers, panel discussions
with Brookings experts, and site visits. Over the
course of three days, members heard from Vice
President Joseph Biden, Secretary of State John
Kerry, Permanent Representative to the UN
Samantha Power, and Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court Stephen Breyer. The Council
also spent time discussing important issues like
the Iran nuclear deal, the Islamic State, the eco-
nomic outlook, innovation and privacy, education
in developing countries, advanced industries, and
energy, water, and climate change. The agenda
F
Antoine W. van Agtmael
Co-Chairman of the IAC
Senior Adviser
Garten Rothkopf
Paul Desmarais, Jr.
Co-Chairman of the IAC
Chairman and Co-CEO
Power Corporation of Canada
Mohammed Mahfoodh
Alardhi
Chairman
Rimal Investments
Oman
Rahul Bajaj
Chairman
Bajaj Auto Limited
India
Hakeem Belo-Osagie
Chairman
Etisalat Nigeria
Nigeria
Nicolas Berggruen
Chairman
Berggruen Holdings
United States
Tobias Josef Brown
Managing Director
UCL Asia Limited
Hong Kong
George David
Chairman
Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling
Company
Greece
Sir Mick Davis
Founding Partner
X2 Resources Limited
U.K.
Haluk Dincer
President, Retail and Insurance
Sabanci Holding
Turkey
John Elkann
Chairman
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles
Italy
Pablo Gonzalez Guajardo
Chief Executive Officer
Kimberly-Clark de Mexico
Mexico
Adrian Gore
Founder and CEO
Discovery Group
South Africa
J. Jon Imaz
CEO
Repsol
Spain
Frank Lowy
Co-Founder
Westfield Group
Australia
Andronico Luksic
Vice Chairman
Banco de Chile
Chile
Philip Mallinckrodt
Group Head of Wealth
Management
Schroders PLC
U.K.
Jorge Mandelbaum
Chairman of the Advisory Board
CIPPEC (Center for the
Implementation of Public
Policy)
Argentina
Shmuel Meitar
Chairman and Founder
Aurec Capital
Israel
Jaime J. Montealegre
President
Sigma Management, S.A.
Costa Rica
Javier Monzon
Spain
Hutham S. Olayan
President and CEO, Olayan
America
The Olayan Group
Saudi Arabia
Jose Oliu Creus
President
Banc Sabadell
Spain
Juan Pardinas
Director General
IMCO
Mexico
Victor Pinchuk
Founder
EastOne Ltd.
Ukraine
Marian Puig
EXEA
Spain
Itamar Rabinovich
President
Israel Institute
Bronfman Distinguished
Nonresident Senior Fellow
The Brookings Institution
Israel
Royal Dutch Shell
Netherlands
Tokyo Sexwale
Sexwale Family Foundation
Republic of South Africa
SK holdings Co. Ltd.
South Korea
Kihak Sung
Chairman and CEO
Youngone Corporation
South Korea
Yukitoshi Funo
Chief Executive Officer, IIES
Senior Advisor to the Board
Toyota Motor Corporation
Japan
Marcus Wallenberg
Chairman
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken
AB
Sweden
Dieter Zetsche
Chairman
Daimler Corporation
Germany
Ten Years of Global Engagement
also included regional briefings and discussions on
Latin America, Europe, and East Asia.
To mark the tenth annual meeting, the Coun-
cil's conversations at this year's meetings included
a look back at the issues that dominated the head-
lines at the first meeting and how priorities had
changed over time. The group also discussed the
changing political and economic toolkits that
policymakers and business leaders have at their
disposal to address the big challenges of the day
and what long-term trends should be on the
Brookings research agenda for the next ten years.
Founding members of the
International Advisory
Council (from left) Rahul
Bajaj, Philip Mallinckrodt,
Itamar Rabinovich, and
Antoine van Agtmael with
President Strobe Talbott.
Not shown are founding
members Mukesh Ambani,
Hutham Olayan, Victor
Pinchuk, and Marcus
Wallenberg
Brookings President
Strobe Talbott
introduces
Vice President
Joseph Biden
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Members of the International Advisory Council participate in a panel
discussion on the Iran nuclear deal at the 2015 annual meeting
International Advisory Council Co-Chair and Trustee
Paul Desmarais, Jr. speaks with Council member
Yukitoshi Funo and Sumio Ohtsuji
PHOTO BY PAUL MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
36 37
Brookings Institution Executive Leadership
Brookings is led by a management team compris-
ing the president and executive vice president of
the Institution, along with the vice presidents of
the research programs and non-research programs.
Together this team works to ensure that Brookings
is operating efficiently and maintaining the highest
standards of quality, independence, and impact in
all of its activities.
Strobe Talbott
President
Martin Indyk
Executive Vice President
Steven Bennett
Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
Kimberly Churches
Vice President for Institutional Advancement and
External Relations
Secretary of the Board
Kemal Dervi
s
Vice President and Director, Global Economy and
Development
The Edward M. Bernstein Scholar
Ona Alston Dosunmu
Vice President and General Counsel
Ted Gayer
Vice President and Director, Economic Studies
Joseph A. Pechman Senior Fellow
Bruce Jones
Vice President and Director, Foreign Policy
Bruce Katz
Vice President and Co-Director, Metropolitan
Policy Program
The Adeline M. and Alfred I. Johnson Chair in
Urban and Metropolitan Policy
David Nassar
Vice President for Communications
Leigh Morris Sloane
Chief of Staff
Stewart Uretsky
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer
Darrell West
Vice President and Director, Governance Studies
The Douglas Dillon Chair
Strobe Talbott
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
DAY
WALTERS
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
RALPH
ALSWANG
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
DAY
WALTERS
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
RALPH
ALSWANG
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Program Leadership Councils
ECONOMIC
STUDIES COUNCIL
Wilbur Ross, Chair
H. Rodgin Cohen, Vice Chair
Sandeep Arora
Ken Bentsen
Julia Coronado
Jason Cummins
Scott Evans
Lorenzo Giorgianni
Jeffrey A. Goldstein
George Kellner
Matt Miller
Barbara Novick
Roberto Perli
Andrew Plepler
Nancy D. Prior
Steven Rattner
Chris Rokos
Mark Spindel
Paul Schott Stevens
Yasuyuki Sugiura
Carl Tannebaum
Michael Tipsord
Debra Valentine
Heather Wingate
David Zervos
GLOBAL LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL
Suzanne Nora Johnson, Chair
Yonca Brunini
Deborah Duncan
L. Enrique Garcia
Lou Anne King Jensen
Tawfic Khoury
Jonathan Schaffzin
Ercument Tokat
GOVERNANCE
STUDIES COUNCIL
Rebecca Arbogast
Elizabeth Avery
Daniel Berger
William D. Budinger
Louis W. Cabot
Daniel Cruise
Gary L. Ginsberg
Robert D. Jensen
William Kamela
Jeri Kubicki
David Lieber
Michael Lopez
Carol Melton
R. Hewitt Pate
Edgar Rios
Peter L. Scher
A. Alfred* and Judy Taubman
Andrew H. Tisch
Claude Wasserstein
Seymour and Kate Weingarten
John White, Jr.
Carol Wilner
Ezra K. Zilkha
Adam and Ariel Zurofsky
* Deceased
FOREIGN POLICY
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL
Benjamin R. Jacobs, Chairman
Dominic Barton
Alan Batkin
Jeffrey Boyd
Charles Bronfman
Paul L. Cejas
Ronald Cohen
Jonathan E. Colby
Howard E. Cox
Alan Dachs
Mick Davis
Chris DeLong
Feng Deng
Joshua Donfeld
Ronald I. Dozoretz, M.D.
Alfonso Fanjul
Theresa Fariello
Raj Fernando
Lawrence K. Fish
David Fisher
Bart Friedman
Michael Gelman
Susie Gelman
Vartan Gregorian
Andrew Gundlach
Roger Hertog
Suzanne Nora Johnson
David Kamenetzky
Samer Khoury
Edward Lamont
Dan W. Lufkin
John G. Macfarlane III
Richard Nye
John G. Popp
Joseph L. Rice III
Stephen Robert
David Rogers
David M. Rubenstein
Haim Saban
Joseph N. Sanberg
William A. Shutzer
David S. Steiner
Krishen Sud
Antoine van Agtmael
Nick Welch
Poju Zabludowicz
Arshad Zakaria
METROPOLITAN
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL
AIG
Alcoa Foundation
Annie E. Casey Foundation
Bank of America
Robert and Anne Bass
Central Indiana
Corporate Partnership /
BioCrossroads
Citi
The Civic Council of Greater
Kansas City
Comcast NBCUniversal
Paul Desmarais, Jr.
Cheryl Cohen Effron
FedEx Corporation
Ford Foundation
The George Gund Foundation
Hampton Roads Community
Foundation
The Heinz Endowments
Hitachi, Ltd.
James A. Johnson
Jefferson Educational Society
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Tom Kaplan
Monica Keany
Richard A. Kimball, Jr.
Peter Kimmelman
Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts
& Co.
The Kresge Foundation
Lear Corporation
Lennar International
Lumina Foundation for
Education
John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation
McKnight Foundation
Microsoft Corporation
Charles Stewart Mott
Foundation
RBC Capital Markets
The Rockefeller Foundation
Rob Roy
Louis Salkind
San Diego Economic
Development Council
Robert A. Stewart
Surdna Foundation, Inc.
Lynn Thoman
UnitedHealth Group
University of Nevada,
Las Vegas
Antoine van Agtmael
Jeffrey Walker
Tracy R. Wolstencroft
John O. Wynne
ach of Brookings's five research programs has assembled an advi-
sory group of business, community, and philanthropic leaders who
provide strategic advice on important policy issues and ways to
maximize the impact of scholars' recommendations. The Councils
convene several times annually for briefings from Brookings experts
and senior policymakers and working sessions on pressing topics.
E
Martin Indyk Steven Bennett Kimberly Churches
Kemal Dervi
s Ona Alston Dosunmu Ted Gayer
Bruce Jones Bruce Katz David Nassar
Leigh Sloane Stewart Uretsky Darrell West
38 39
Board of Trustees Honor Roll
David M. Rubenstein
Co-Chair of the Board
Brookings
Co-Founder and Co-CEO
The Carlyle Group
John L. Thornton
Co-Chair of the Board
Brookings
Glenn Hutchins
Vice Chair of the Board
Brookings
Co-Founder
Silver Lake
Suzanne Nora Johnson
Vice Chair of the Board
Brookings
Former Vice Chairman
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Strobe Talbott
President
The Brookings Institution
Robert J. Abernethy
President
American Standard Development
Co., Inc.
Paul M. Achleitner
Non-Executive Chairman
Deutsche Bank AG
Liaquat Ahamed
Former Chief Executive Officer
Fischer Francis Trees and Watts,
Inc.
Dominic Barton
Global Managing Director
McKinsey & Company, Inc.
Robert M. Bass
President
Keystone Group, L.P.
Alan R. Batkin
Chairman
Converse Associates, Inc.
Crandall Bowles
Chairman
The Springs Company
Hanzade Do
gan Boyner
Vice Chairwoman
Do
gan Holding
Sirketler Grubu
A.
S.
Paul L. Cejas
Chairman
PLC Investments, Inc.
W. Edmund Clark
Retired Executive
TD Bank Group
Abby Joseph Cohen
President, Global Markets
Institute; and Senior
Investment Strategist,
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Betsy Z. Cohen
Chief Executive Officer
The Bancorp
Arthur R. Collins
Managing Partner
theGROUP
Howard Cox
Special Limited Partner
Greylock
Arthur B. Culvahouse, Jr.
Chairman Emeritus
O'Melveny & Myers LLP
Alan M. Dachs
President and CEO
Fremont Group
Paul Desmarais, Jr.
Chairman and Co-CEO
Power Corporation of Canada
Kenneth M. Duberstein
Chairman and CEO
The Duberstein Group, Inc.
Cheryl Cohen Effron
Founder
Conjunction Fund
Alfonso Fanjul
Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer
Fanjul Corp. and Florida Crystals
Corporation
Bart Friedman
Senior Partner
Cahill Gordon & Reindel
Ann M. Fudge
Former Chairman and CEO
Young & Rubicam Brands
Ellen V. Futter
President
American Museum of Natural
History
Brian L. Greenspun
Chairman and CEO
Greenspun Media Group
Pete Higgins
Founding Partner
Second Avenue Partners
Victor L. Hymes
Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Investment Officer
Legato Capital Management LLC
Shirley Ann Jackson, Ph.D.
President
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Benjamin R. Jacobs
Senior Advisor /Founder
The JBG Companies
Kenneth M. Jacobs
Chairman and CEO
Lazard
Klaus Kleinfeld
Chairman and CEO
Alcoa, Inc.
Philip H. Knight
Chairman
Nike, Inc.
James Murren
Chairman and CEO
MGM Resorts International
James Rogers
Retired Chairman and CEO
Duke Energy
Wilbur Ross
Chairman and Chief Strategy
Officer
WL Ross & Co. LLC
Victoria P. Sant
President
The Summit Foundation
Leonard D. Schaeffer
Founding Chairman and CEO
WellPoint
Peter Scher
Chairman of the Washington
D.C. Region and Head of
Corporate Responsibility
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Amy W. Schulman
Senior Lecturer
Harvard Business School
Arne M. Sorenson
President and Chief Executive
Officer
Marriott International, Inc.
Antoine W. van Agtmael
Senior Adviser
Garten Rothkopf
Former Chairman
Ashmore EMM, LLC
Beatrice W. Welters
Founder and Co-Chairperson
AnBryce Foundation
John H. White, Jr.
President and CEO
Taco, Inc.
Tracy R. Wolstencroft
CEO
Heidrick and Struggles
Daniel Yergin
Vice-Chairman
IHS, Inc.
Lei Zhang
Chairman and CEO
Hillhouse Capital Management
Daniel B. Zwirn
Managing Partner
Zwirn Family Interests, LLC
HONORARY TRUSTEES
Zoe Baird
President
The Markle Foundation
Rex J. Bates
Richard C. Blum
Chairman and President
Blum Capital Partners, LP
Geoffrey T. Boisi
Chairman and CEO
Roundtable Investment Partners
LLC
Louis W. Cabot, chair emeritus
Chairman
Cabot-Wellington LLC
Kenneth W. Dam
Max Pam Professor of American
& Foreign Law
University of Chicago Law School
Steven A. Denning
Chairman
General Atlantic
Vishakha N. Desai, Ph.D.
Special Advisor for Global Affairs
Columbia University
Thomas E. Donilon
Former U.S. National Security
Advisor
Senior Partner
O'Melveny and Myers
Lawrence K. Fish
Former Chairman and CEO
Citizens Financial Group, Inc.
Cyrus F. Freidheim, Jr.
Chairman
Old Harbour Partners, LLC
David Friend
Executive Chairman
Carbonite, Inc.
Henry Louis Gates, Jr.
Director, Hutchins Center for
African & African American
Research
Harvard University
William A. Haseltine, Ph.D.
President
The Haseltine Foundation
Chairman
Haseltine Global Health, LLC
Teresa Heinz
Chairman
Heinz Family Foundation
Joel Z. Hyatt
James A. Johnson, chair
emeritus
Chairman
Johnson Capital Partners
Ann Dibble Jordan
Vernon E. Jordan, Jr.
Of Counsel
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld, LLP
Richard A. Kimball, Jr.
Nemir Kirdar
Founder, Executive Chairman
and CEO
Investcorp
Donald F. McHenry
Distinguished Professor in the
Practice of Diplomacy and
International Affairs
School of Foreign Service
Georgetown University
Rajan Bharti Mittal
Vice Chairman
Bharti Enterprises Limited
Mario M. Morino
Co-Founder and Chairman
Venture Philanthropy Partners
Thomas C. Ramey
Former Chairman
Liberty International, Liberty
Mutual Group
Steven Rattner
Chairman
Willett Advisors LLC
Edgar Rios
Co-Founder and Managing
Director
Wenzi Capital Partners
James D. Robinson III
General Partner and Co-Founder
RRE Ventures
Haim Saban
Chairman and CEO
Saban Capital Group, Inc.
Ralph S. Saul
Former Chairman
CIGNA Corporation
Michael P. Schulhof
Chairman and CEO
Global Technology Investments
Lynn Thoman
Co-Chair
Leon Lowenstein Foundation
Larry D. Thompson
Executive VP of Governmental
Affairs, General Counsel and
 Corporate Secretary
PepsiCo, Inc.
Michael L. Tipsord
Vice Chairman and Chief
Operating Officer
State Farm Insurance Companies
Andrew H. Tisch
Co-Chairman of the Board and
Chairman of the Executive
Committee
Loews Corporation
Stephen M. Wolf
Managing Parnter
Alpilles, Inc.
Ezra K. Zilkha
President
Zilkha & Sons, Inc.
Cash, Contracts, and In-Kind Contributions Received July 1, 2014-June 30, 2015
$2,000,000 and Above
Anne T. and Robert M. Bass
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation
The Hutchins Family Foundation
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
LEGO Foundation
Embassy of the State of Qatar
David M. Rubenstein
John L. Thornton
University of Nevada, Las Vegas
$1,000,000-$1,999,999
Anonymous
Food and Drug Administration
Cecilia Yen Koo and the Koo
Family
The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation
The Rockefeller Foundation
Cheryl and Haim Saban
United Arab Emirates
$500,000-$999,999
Anonymous
Laura and John Arnold Foundation
Australian Government,
Department of Foreign Affairs
and Trade
British Foreign & Commonwealth
Office
Carnegie Corporation of
New York
Annie E. Casey Foundation
Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services
Government of Denmark
Echidna Giving
Ford Foundation
Mark T. Gallogly
and Elizabeth B. Strickler
Genentech-A Member of The
Roche Group
The Kresge Foundation
Liberty Mutual Group
Government of Norway
Omidyar Network
Robert C. Pozen and the Ashurst
Foundation
The Andrew H. and Ann R. Tisch
Foundation
UnitedHealth Group, Inc.
Washington University
in St. Louis
$250,000-$499,999
Anonymous
Altman/Kazickas Foundation
Bank of America
Dominic Barton
Richard C. Blum and the
Honorable Dianne Feinstein
The Brown Foundation, Inc. of
Houston
Canadian Department of Foreign
Affairs and International Trade
Charities Aid Foundation
Children's Investment Fund
Foundation
Citi
Steve and Roberta Denning
Hanzade Do
gan Boyner, Do
gan
Group
Cheryl Cohen Effron
and Blair W. Effron
Exxon Mobil Corporation
The Financial Services Forum
Roger Hertog
The Japan Foundation Center for
Global Partnership
The Korea Foundation
Lumina Foundation
The MasterCard Foundation
Richard Merkin
Microsoft Corporation
Erin M. Mindich
The Charles Stewart Mott
Foundation
National Institutes of Health
Patient-Centered Outcomes
Research Institute
Porticus
Qualcomm Incorporated
The Rodel Foundations
Chris Rokos
Searle Freedom Trust
Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation
Edwin Soeryadjaya
State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company
Surdna Foundation
Swedish Ministry for Foreign
Affairs
Taipei Economic and Cultural
Representative Office in the
United States
Turkish Industry and Business
Association (TUS
IAD)
UN University World Institute
for Development Economics
Research
Antoine van Agtmael, Sunrise
Foundation
The Walton Family Foundation
Tracy R. Wolstencroft
$100,000-$249,999
Anonymous (6)
Robert John Abernethy
Paul Achleitner and
Deutsche Bank AG
AIG
Mohammed Mahfoodh Alardhi
Alcoa Foundation
AT&T
Australian Civil-Military Centre-
Department of Defence
Barrick Gold Corporation
Rex J. Bates
Alan and Jane Batkin
S.D. Bechtel, Jr. Foundation
Nicolas Berggruen
Daniel Berger
BlackRock Financial
Management, Inc.
Brevan Howard
Ambassador Paul L. Cejas
Central Indiana Corporate
Partnership/BioCrossroads
Anla Cheng
Cheniere Energy, Inc.
Chevron
W. Edmund Clark
The Clearing House Association
Betsy Z. Cohen
Sir Ronald Cohen
Art Collins
Comcast NBCUniversal
Jonathan Coslet
The Council for the
United States and Italy
Howard Cox
Alan and Lauren Dachs
Daimler
George A. David
The Davis Foundation
Deloitte LLP
Paul Desmarais, Jr.
Haluk Dincer
Jian Ding
Ronald I. Dozoretz, M.D.
Every Child Capital Fund of the
Greater Cincinnati Foundation
Alfonso Fanjul
Raj Fernando
Fiat
Fidelity Investments
Government of Finland
David and Marianna Fisher
Pablo R. Gonzalez
Google Inc.
The George Gund Foundation
Hampton Roads Community
Foundation
The Heinz Endowments
Pete Higgins
Gisele Huff
Investment Company Institute
Gail and Benjamin Jacobs
Kenneth M. Jacobs
Japan International Cooperation
Agency
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation
Sheryl and Chip Kaye
Samer Khoury
Philip Knight
Charles Koch Foundation
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
Ned Lamont
Lear Corporation
Lennar Corporation
Frank P. Lowy
The Henry Luce Foundation
Lili Lynton
Mars, Incorporated
The McKnight Foundation
MetLife, Inc.
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc.
Northrop Grumman Corporation
Open Society Foundations
Richard Perry
Victor Pinchuk Foundation
Steven Rattner
and Maureen White
Repsol Foundation
Rio Tinto
Wilbur and Hilary Ross
Rob Roy, Switch
Robert E. Rubin
Joseph N. Sanberg
Victoria and Roger Sant
Peter L. Scher
Schlosstein-Hartley Family
Foundation
Eric E. Schmidt
Eric S. Schwartz
Gerald Schwartz
and Heather Reisman
Shell
SK holdings
Statoil
Tom Steyer and Kat Taylor
Government of Switzerland
Tang Xiaodan
Lynn Thoman and the Leon
Lowenstein Foundation
Toyota
United Parcel Service
U.S. Agency for International
Development
Alex C. Walker Foundation
Tom and Nancy Wall, IV
John Hazen White, Jr.
John O. Wynne
40 41
Honor Roll
Xcoal Energy & Resources
Jerry Yang
Chi Zhang
Lei Zhang
Ezra K. Zilkha
D.B. Zwirn Foundation
$50,000-$99,999
Anonymous (3)
All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd.
Allen & Company LLC
Amgen
Asthma and Allergy Foundation
of America
Martin Neil Baily
Rahul Bajaj
Banco de Sabadell S.A.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Hakeem Belo-Osagie
Blackstone Charitable Foundation
Crandall C. Bowles
The Andrea and Charles
Bronfman Philanthropies
Brothers Brook Foundation
Tobias Josef Brown
China-United States Exchange
Foundation
The Civic Council of
Greater Kansas City
Abby Joseph Cohen
H. Rodgin Cohen
Jonathan E. Colby
The Commonwealth Fund
Cornerstone Macro
Credit Suisse
The Crown Family
Deborah L. Duncan
ECGRA
Facebook
The Fascitelli Foundation
Mimi Frankel, Frankel Family
Foundation
Mitzi and Cyrus Freidheim
Bart Friedman
and Wendy A. Stein
Susie and Michael Gelman
Jeffrey A. Goldstein
Good Ventures
Graham Capital Management
Andrew Gundlach,
Anna-Maria and Stephen
Kellen Foundation
William A. Haseltine
Huntsman Foundation
Lou Anne King Jensen
James A. Johnson
Jefferies, LLC
The Jefferson Educational Society
The Jenesis Group
Tom Kaplan, Wolfgang Puck Fine
Dining Group
George A. Kellner
Korea Foundation for Advanced
Studies
Korea International Trade
Association (KITA)
Linden Trust for Conservation
Dan W. Lufkin, Peter Jay Sharp
Foundation
John G. Macfarlane III
Philip Mallinckrodt, The
Schroeder Foundation
The Markle Foundation
The MITRE Corporation
Mitsubishi Corporation (Americas)
The Leo Model Foundation
Ambrose Monell Foundation
Jaime J. Montealegre
National Association of Insurance
Commissioners
National Science Foundation
New Silk Route
New York University
Nihon Keizai Shimbun-sya
(NIKKEI)
Noble Energy
Nomura Foundation
Northern Trust
Richard Nye
The Olayan Group
PepsiCo
Ploughshares Fund
John G. Popp
Potomac River Capital, LLC
Marian Puig
Thomas C. Ramey
and Perrin Ireland
Joseph L. Rice III
San Diego Regional Economic
Development Corporation
Sanofi US
Dr. Fay L. Shutzer
and William A. Shutzer
Social Security Administration
Arne and Ruth Sorenson
David S. and Sylvia Steiner
Robert Stewart
Krishen Sud
Taconic Capital Advisors LP
Strobe Talbott
A. Alfred Taubman
Time Warner, Inc.
Ercument Tokat
Tudor Investment Corporation
United Technologies Corporation
U.S. Department of Health &
Human Services
U.S. Department of Transportation
Bernard van Leer Foundation
Marcus Wallenberg, Wallenberg
Foundations AB
Claude Wasserstein
Robert M. Weekley
Beatrice W. and Anthony Welters
Daniel H. Yergin and Angela Stent
Arshad Zakaria
$25,000-$49,999
Anonymous (3)
The AAA Foundation for Traffic
Safety
American Express
Aramco Services Company
Association of American Railroads
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ, Ltd.
Heinrich Boll Foundation
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation
CAF-Development Bank
of Latin America
The Morris and Gwendolyn
Cafritz Foundation
Frank Carlucci
The Coca-Cola Company
ConocoPhillips
Cummins Inc.
Kenneth W. Dam
EDF Inc.
Edith B. Everett
French Ministry of Foreign Affairs
GEICO
Greater Phoenix Economic Council
Teresa Heinz Kerry
Honda North America, Inc.
Frank F. Islam
The Israel Institute
Japan Bank for International
Cooperation
Peter A. Joseph
Robert N. Kaplan
Betsy Karel
The Kern Family Foundation
Peter Kimmelman
Knowledge Society Institute
Robert E. Marks
Marubeni America Corporation
Robert R. McCormick Foundation
McKinsey & Company, Inc.
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
America, Inc.
Morgan Stanley
Mario M. Morino
Philip D. Murphy
Lisa O'Kelly
Peter G. Peterson Foundation
Samuel Pisar
Raytheon Company
James D. Robinson III
Jonathan Schaffzin
Sojitz Foundation
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corporation
The Nelson S. Talbott Foundation
Tata Group of companies
United Nations Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs
University of Chicago
Visa Inc.
Enzo Viscusi, Eni S.p.A.
Volvo Research and Educational
Foundations
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family
Foundation, Inc.
WSP/Parsons Brinckerhoff
ZTE USA
$10,000-$24,999
Anonymous (3)
Liaquat and Meena Ahamed
American Society of Clinical
Oncology
AttorneyFee
Eileen A. Aptman
The Loreen Arbus Foundation
Arnhold Foundation
Astra Capital Management
The Atlantic Philanthropies
BAE Systems, North America
Joanne Barker
Steffi and Robert Berne
The Boeing Company
Geoffrey T. Boisi and the
Boisi Family Foundation
Anders Brag
Paul Britton
The Brodsky Family Foundation
Richard C. Bush
Louis W. Cabot
Carter Cafritz
Conrad Cafritz
Caterpillar Inc.
Colorado Department of Health
Care Policy and Financing
Everett R. Cook
Corning Incorporated Foundation
Arthur B. Culvahouse, Jr.
The Curtis Family Foundation
Davis Polk & Wardwell, LLP
Porter Dawson
Laura A. DeFelice
Joshua Donfeld
The Honorable Kenneth M.
Duberstein
R.S. Evans Foundation
Nick Farmer
Roger C. Faxon
Frank and Kathy Finelli
Lawrence K. Fish
Victoria Foley
The Lee and Juliet Folger Fund
Patrick Frayne
David Friend
Ann M. Fudge
John L. Furth
Gardner Grout Foundation
General Motors Foundation
Donna Gerstenfeld
Goldman Sachs
Patrick W. and Shelby Proby Gross
Agnes Gund
The Harris Family Foundation
June R. Hechinger
Hellman Foundation
Fiona Hill
Hitachi, Ltd.
ITOCHU International Inc.
Karel Jane
cek
Joel and Ricki Kanter
James M. Kemper
Lee Klingenstein
Robert and Arlene Kogod
LegalZoom
Toby Devan Lewis
Linklaters LLP, on behalf of the
Advancing Good Governance
in International Development
Seminar
Gordon Litwin and Anne Luzzatto
LMI Government Consulting
Malcolm R. and Celia Lovell
Bertil P. Lundqvist
Monica Mandelli
Edward and Dale Mathias
John P. McCormick
Arjay Miller
Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.
Allison Nathan
Embassy of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands
The Nippon Foundation
NTT Corp.
Gordon and Dailey Pattee
Dina and George Perry
Steven Pifer
Christopher Reynolds Foundation
Frederic A. and Susan Rubenstein
Amy Schulman
Shimizu Corporation
Stanley S. Shuman
Skoll Centre for Global
Entrepreneurship
Emily and Robert E. Smith
James E. Staley
Andrew and Patricia Steffan
Sidney Stern Memorial Trust
Sumitomo Corporation of America
John Templeton Foundation
Larry D. Thompson
Michael L. Tipsord
Toshiba America, Inc.
Ranvir Trehan
UNICEF
Paul Verbinnen and Cecilia Greene
Verizon Communications
The Volcker Alliance
VOX Global
Seymour and Kathleen Weingarten
John C. Whitehead
Stephen M. Wolf
Xerox Corporation
Rachel Zhang
$5,000-$9,999
Anonymous
American Federation of Teachers
Robert O. and Sylvia Blake
William M. Cameron
Kimberly Churches
Convergence Center for Policy
Resolution
Charles W. Duncan, Jr.
Nancy M. Folger
Forum for the Future of
Higher Education
William H. Frey
Leslie I. Gold, Ph.D.
Susan and John Gutfreund
Katherine Clark Harris
Phil Harvey
Cynthia Helms
Marie L. Knowles
Rebecca Liao
Bruce and Virginia MacLaury
State of Maryland Department
of Labor Licensing and
Regulation (DLLR)
Betty Ann Ottinger
James and Theodore Pedas
Family Foundation
Marie Ridder
David Rogers
Robert J.T. Rosenfeld
Frederick Stavis
Paul and Chandler Tagliabue
Margaret L. Tomlinson
John Usdan
John S. Weston
Malcolm H. Wiener
Up to $4,999
Anonymous (11)
Susan Beth Anders
William J. Antholis
Aspen Institute
Harley D. Balzer
William Horton Beebe-Center
Steven J. Bennett
John Beyrle
Erik Blumenkranz
Zoe Baird Budinger
and William Budinger
Erin E. Bullinger
Adem Bunkeddeko
Theodore Bunzel
Jacqueline Carter
Samuel G. Charap
Morris Clarke
Morton and Shirley Cohen
Roberta Cohen
Stephen Cohen
Lew and Marge Collens Fund
Stephen Cordani
Paul Courant
The Morton and Dina Danseyar
Family Foundation
Keith Darden
Paul Diperna
Jill Dougherty
Courtney Dunakin
Paul Effron
Elliot Company of Indianapolis,
Inc.
Thomas Elliott
Sydney Farrar
Florida International University
Charles Freeman
Ellen V. Futter
Toby and Charles Gati
Ted and Rachel Gayer
Matthew Gebhardt
Elizabeth Gemmill
Elisa B. Glazer
David B. Golder
Alexis Gregory Foundation
Scott Grinsell
Marion Guggenheim
Steve and Sheila Hamp
Hope M. Harrison
Nancy Maisto Hewett
Ronda Hodges
Kent Insley
Inter-American Development Bank
Robert Jackson
Donald Jensen
Taylor Johnson
Gerard Jones
Marvin Kalb
Bruce Katz
Mark Katz
Katherine Kelleher
Thomas L. Kempner
Douglas Kiessling
Andrew Klaber
Robert Kleinberg
Jim Klopper
Christopher S. Koza
Phyllis Jo Kubey
Dan Henry Lee III
Jennifer Scully Lerner
Leonard Levie
Wayne P. Limberg
Amy Liu
Eric Lohr
Michael Love
Claire Macelroy
Lissette Marcelo
Jeffrey Marlough
Daniel Martinez
Eduardo Martinez
Donald F. McHenry
Milton Mitchell
Stephen Morris
Kara Ramirez Mullins
and Sean F. Mullins
Sakura Namioka
New Venture Fund
Norris, Tysse, Lampley &
Lakis, LLP
Robert C. Nurick
Robert Orttung
Steven Pearson
Peter Person
Marc Peters
Philip A. Piro
Samuel Plimpton
William Eric Pomeranz
Samuel Price
Yuanyuan Qin
Blair Ruble
Nicholas Rugoff
Raymond Ryan
The Sasakawa Peace Foundation
B. Francis Saul II
Henry B. Schacht
Robert Schulz
Michael Schwartz
Naveen Shahani
Henry Silver
Michael Sklaroff
Hendrith Vanlon Smith
Alexander Sokolowski
Marjorie H. Sonnenfeldt
Constanze Stelzenmuller
Santiago Torres
Peeranut Visetsuth
Frank A. Weil
Robert Weinberger
Shannon and Paul Wolfe
George Yin
Felicity Yost
Brookings strives for completeness
and accuracy in this Honor Roll.
We regret any omissions or errors.
42 43
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
Years Ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 (in thousands)
Preliminary and Unaudited*
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
As of June 30, 2015 and 2014 (in thousands)
Preliminary and Unaudited*
Operating Revenues Program Services Expenses
32%
Foreign Policy
24%
Economic Studies
10%
Governance Studies
13%
Global Economy and
Development
15%
Metropolitan Policy Program
3%
Publications
86%
2%
10%
Endowment
Gifts and Grants
Miscellaneous
Publications
3%
Communications
2%
Notes:
As a nonprofit and scientific organization, 
Brookings is exempt from federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code. The Institution also qualifies as a publicly supported organization under section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) of the code.
Brookings policy is to make an annual investment spending allocation for the support of operations. This amount is calculated
based on 70% of the prior year's spending adjusted for inflation and 30% of 5% of the market value of the investments as of
December 31 of the prior fiscal year. Certain reclassifications of prior year balances have been made to conform to the current year
presentation.
*
A copy of the Institution's audited financial statements is available by request.
2015 TOTAL 2014 TOTAL
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents $42,076 $41,849
Grants, contributions and accounts receivable, net 74,374 90,492
Inventory 294 278
Investments 320,925 321,910
Property and equipment, net 39,455 39,714
Other assets 4,834 1,755
TOTAL ASSETS 481,958 495,998
LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 6,525 7,116
Notes payable, bonds payable and lines of credit 48,339 40,659
Accrued compensated leave 2,083 1,810
Accrued post-retirement benefit obligation 2,107 2,084
Deferred revenue 1,691 1,112
TOTAL LIABILITIES 60,745 52,781
NET ASSETS
Unrestricted 202,238 212,657
Temporarily restricted 135,238 148,721
Permanently restricted 83,737 81,839
TOTAL NET ASSETS 421,213 443,217
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS $481,958 $495,998
UNRESTRICTED
TEMPORARILY
RESTRICTED
PERMANENTLY
RESTRICTED
FY 2015
TOTAL
FY 2014
TOTAL
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Revenue and Support
Investment return designated for operations $10,519 $3,897 - $14,416 $13,463
Grants, contracts, and contributions 13,305 61,539 $1,898 76,742 89,726
Brookings Press 1,710 - - 1,710 1,829
Facility and other revenue 3,012 (300) - 2,712 2,544
Net assets released from restrictions--
Satisfaction of program restrictions
77,595 (77,595) - - -
Total Operating Revenue 106,141 (12,459) 1,898 95,580 107,562
OPERATING EXPENSES
Program Services
Economic Studies 18,045 - - 18,045 17,191
Foreign Policy 24,416 - - 24,416 22,907
Global Economy and Development 10,321 - - 10,321 10,554
Governance Studies 7,337 - - 7,337 6,846
Metropolitan Policy Program 11,628 - - 11,628 11,951
Other Research 10 - - 10 160
Brookings Press 2,457 - - 2,457 2,565
Communications 2,452 - - 2,452 2,388
Total Program Services 76,666 - - 76,666 74,562
Supporting Services
Management and General 24,422 - - 24,422 20,960
Fundraising 3,152 - - 3,152 3,462
Total Operating Expenses 104,240 - - 104,240 98,984
Net Operating Activity 1,901 (12,459) 1,898 (8,660) 8,578
Change in net assets before non-operating
activities
1,901 (12,459) 1,898 (8,660) 8,578
NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Investment return in excess of amounts
designated for operations
Realized gain (loss) on sale of investments 9,803 2,019 - 11,822 10,489
Unrealized gain (loss) from investments (10,459) (1,024) - (11,483) 32,033
Interest and dividends, net 7,626 1,878 - 9,504 1,296
Investment return designated for operations (10,519) (3,897) - (14,416) (13,463)
Total investment return (loss) in excess of
amounts designated for operations
(3,549) (1,024) - (4,573) 30,355
Other Non-Operating Activities
Loss on Bond Debt Refinancing (8,748) - - (8,748) -
Total Non-Operating Activities (12,297) (1,024) - (13,321) 30,355
Change in net assets before post-retirement
related changes other than net periodic
post-retirement benefit cost
(10,396) (13,483) 1,898 (21,981) 38,933
Post-retirement related changes other than
net periodic post-retirement pension cost
(23) - - (23) 64
CHANGE IN NET ASSETS (10,419) (13,483) 1,898 (22,004) 38,997
Net assets, Beginning of year 212,657 148,721 81,839 443,217 404,220
Net assets, End of year $202,238 $135,238 $83,737 $421,213 $443,217
44
By the Numbers
BROOKINGS
July 1, 2014-June 30, 2015
Copyright (c) 2015 The Brookings Institution
1775 Massachusetts Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
Telephone: 202.797.6000
Fax: 202.797.6004
www.brookings.edu
VICE PRESIDENT FOR INSTITUTIONAL ADVANCEMENT AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS: Kimberly Churches
EDITOR: Robert Moore
DESIGN AND PRINT PRODUCTION: Manifest LLC
Jeffrey Kibler, Adriana Guevara, Brenda Waugh
PRINTING: Chroma Graphics
COVER PHOTOGRAPHY: Natural Selection Chris Pinchbeck/Corbis
Please consider creating a legacy of support by including Brookings
in your estate plans. Contact Kara Mullins, Associate Vice President
for Institutional Advancement, at kmullins@brookings.edu or
(202) 797-6220 to find out more.
FPO for
FSC
Rank in the
University of
Pennsylvania's
2014
"Global
Go-To Think
Tank Index"
including
Most
Significant
Impact on
Public Policy
Charity
Navigator
rating and
100%
rating for
Accountability
and
Transparency
public events
attended
by more than
20,000
people
110
were webcast, with
59,000
viewers
38
books
published
by the
Brookings
Press
32times
Brookings
scholars
testified
before
Congressional
committees
17,000 subscribers to the Brookings
YouTube channel and nearly
12 million minutes
of video viewed
25
million
website
page views
More than
120,000
subscribers
to the daily
Brookings
Brief email
178,000
Twitter
followers
165,000
Facebook
followers
The Brookings Cafeteria
Podcast won Best News
& Politics Podcast at the
recent Academy of
Podcasters Awards
#
1
HHHH Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Podcast
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Podcast
292
NASA
CHRIS
MINERVA/GETTY
IMAGES
