ANNUAL REPORT 2015
BRINGING COMMUNITIES HOPE
1
1
The American Red Cross is proud to be an emblem of hope for those
facing emergencies
--down the street, across the country and around the
world. Our inspiring volunteers, donors, partners and employees bring
lifesaving services and hope to millions of people in need...day after day
and year after year.
Whether responding to tornadoes in the South, brutal winter storms in the
Northeast, or wildfires out West, Red Crossers are there to provide shelter,
food, relief items...and most importantly, a hug and hope for tomorrow.
And through our Home Fire Campaign, we are working to prevent
disasters and ensure vulnerable communities are prepared if they experience the most common
disaster of all--a home fire. Incredibly, in its first year the Campaign resulted in 15 lives saved.
Internationally, the American Red Cross helped respond to a number of devastating overseas
disasters last year, including the horrific earthquake in Nepal and the deadly Ebola outbreak in
West Africa. And we continue to strive to eliminate deadly disease. With our partners in the Measles
& Rubella Initiative we have vaccinated 2 billion children since 2001, reducing the death rate from
measles by 75 percent over the last decade and giving hope to millions of families.
And, of course the Red Cross gives hope to our men and women in uniform by providing more
than 367,000 emergency assistance services to members of the military and their families in fiscal
year 2015--while also processing nearly 7 million blood products to meet the needs of patients
across the country, and teaching millions of people critical health and safety skills.
Thank you to each and every one of you who helps the Red Cross give hope. You are the very heart
and soul of our humanitarian mission.
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
Chairman
A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
2
As I write this letter, I can't help but reflect on the compassionate
Red Crossers who fulfill our mission every day. In fiscal year 2015
(7/1/14-6/30/15), these remarkable individuals responded to a disaster or
other emergency every eight minutes, provided approximately 40 percent
of our nation's blood supply, taught health and safety skills to millions
of Americans, supported members of our armed forces with emergency
services, and assisted our neighbors abroad in critical disaster preparedness
and disease prevention efforts.
This past year, I visited a number of places impacted by disaster, including
Nepal, after April's devastating earthquake; Houston, where severe flooding displaced thousands of
families; and Haiti, where recovery work from the 2010 earthquake continues. While I remain saddened
by the scenes of destruction I witnessed, I saw encouraging signs of resilience and progress everywhere
I went. I returned more grateful than ever for our dedicated volunteers and workers.
In addition to our responses to large-scale disasters, the Red Cross also launched our Home Fire
Campaign in FY 2015. Working with community partners, we're installing smoke alarms and developing
household evacuation plans in vulnerable neighborhoods--so that no one is unprepared for a home fire.
While our mission remains at the forefront of all we do, the ongoing reduction in demand for blood
products continues to shift market conditions in the blood services industry. The Red Cross has
worked in a thoughtful manner to right-size our Biomedical operations as we adjust to this new level
of demand--all while ensuring the safety and reliability of the nation's blood supply.
As always, the generosity of our remarkable donors, volunteers, and partners powers our humanitarian
efforts. On behalf of those we serve, thank you for standing with the American Red Cross.
Gail McGovern
President and CEO
A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
3
RELIEF IN THE FACE OF DISASTER
Janie Laredo and her family were asleep when the
Blanco River jumped its banks and floodwaters surged
into their apartment in San Marcos, Texas. "It destroyed
our whole apartment," Janie said. "All of a sudden, we
had nothing."
Wesley Campbell, who lives nearby in Bridgeport, lay
in bed when he heard an ominous sound outside. As
a tornado bore down on his house, he and his wife
Mickey tried to escape, but it was too late. They huddled
behind the washer and dryer, as their house rattled in all
directions. When it was over, their home lay in tatters.
"It destroyed our whole apartment.
All of a sudden, we had nothing."
Every eight minutes Red Crossers are on their way to bring help and hope to people facing
all types of emergencies, from mass-fatality events to natural disasters and home fires.
Barbara [last name withheld], a single mother of six,
faced three feet of water in her home after a tornado
cut through Norman, Okla., making her home completely
uninhabitable.
The American Red Cross brought help and hope
to Janie, Wesley, Barbara and thousands of others
across Texas and Oklahoma as destructive tornadoes,
relentless rains and widespread flooding pounded these
states in May and June of 2015.
Red Cross volunteers moved swiftly, opening shelters
for people fleeing rising waters, serving more than
384,000 meals and snacks to residents; distributing
more than 238,000 relief items such as blankets,
personal care products and cleanup items; and working
with partners to offer support to affected families.
Storms Bring Destruction to Texas and Oklahoma
4
Provided more than
32,000
shelter stays
Served over
980,000
meals and snacks
Delivered over
500,000
relief items
Made over
35,000
health and mental
health contacts
"
I don't know how to say
thank you. That [smoke
detector] saved my life."
Gene Welsch escaped a home fire with
the help of the Home Fire Campaign.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM FY 2015
The Red Cross also helped open and staff Multi-Agency
Resource Centers (MARC) across Texas. These MARCs
brought together nonprofit and government partners in
one place where affected individuals and families could
find available assistance and resources.
Janie and her family found safe refuge and comfort in
a Red Cross shelter. Wesley received help cleaning up
his property from Red Cross volunteers. A Red Cross
caseworker helped Barbara with the resources she
needed to move into a rental home and get her family
on the road to recovery.
In Texas and Oklahoma--and in nearly 66,000 disasters
each year--the Red Cross is committed to being there,
whenever and wherever we are needed.
Home Fire Campaign Saves 15 Lives
The American Red Cross Home Fire Campaign saved
15 lives in five states in the past fiscal year. Gene
Welsch of Sioux Falls, S.D., credits his life to the fire
alarm installed in his home through the campaign. In
January 2015, Gene was watching television when
the screen went blue. His smoke alarm sounded, and
he realized smoke was already filling the room. Gene
escaped as flames engulfed his home.
Facing page: Floods wash a truck downriver in Wimberley, Texas. Above: Beds fill a Red Cross shelter outside of Dallas.
5
Thankfully, months before that tragic night, Gene heard about the Red Cross Home Fire Campaign on
the local news. He called the fire department and asked to have new smoke alarms installed. "I don't
know how to say thank you," he said. "That [smoke detector] saved my life."
The Home Fire Campaign focuses on installing smoke alarms in homes in some of the most fire-
affected neighborhoods around the country. It aims to cut the number of home fire deaths and injuries
by 25 percent over the next few years. On average, 2,500 people die and 13,000 are injured by home
fires each year.
Smoke alarms cut the risk of death from a fire in half. The Red Cross has joined with fire departments
and community groups nationwide to install smoke alarms and deliver fire prevention information in
places we know have high numbers of fires.
Now in its second year, the Home Fire Campaign is asking every household in America to take two
simple steps that can save their lives: check their existing smoke alarms and practice fire drills at home.
02'00"
Above: Luis Monzon, right, lost his home to a fire ignited by his car.
Installed more than
95,000
smoke alarms
Visited more than
50,000
homes in all 50
states to provide fire
safety information
Reached
420,000
people with
preparedness and
safety information
HIGHLIGHTS FROM FY 2015
6
SERVING GLOBAL NEIGHBORS
Together with the global Red Cross and Red Crescent network, the American Red Cross
works to meet the needs of the world's most vulnerable communities.
Earthquake Devastates Nepal
On April 25, 2015, a 7.8 magnitude earthquake devastated
Nepal. With more than 8,800 lives lost and more than
900,000 homes destroyed or damaged, families found
themselves sleeping outside in the driving rain in need of
life's basic necessities.
The American Red Cross acted quickly. Working side-by-side
with partners in the global Red Cross network, we helped
provide relief items such as shelter materials, hygiene kits,
drinking water, and blankets.
We deployed 41 disaster specialists to the Himalayan country.
American Red Cross team members spearheaded the
distribution of small cash grants, enabling families affected
by the earthquake to make decisions about which items they
needed most. "With the cash provided by the Red Cross,"
said Kamala Pariyar, who lost her home, "I will be able to buy
bamboo for temporary shelter."
"
With the cash provided by the
Red Cross, I will be able to buy
bamboo for temporary shelter."
The Red Cross assisted Kamala Pariyar with
a cash grant after losing her home.
Top: In Kathmandu, a Nepal Red Cross worker surveys a decimated home.
7
Our innovative Geographic Information System team and digital mapping volunteers assisted in
developing a detailed map of an area the size of Ohio within 48 hours, helping the relief effort be
even more targeted and efficient.
The American Red Cross continues to work on the ground in Nepal, helping communities recover,
supporting long-term recovery efforts and--as we have done for nearly a decade--equipping the
Nepali people to deal with future emergencies.
Julie Bradley, a Red Cross volunteer and
IT/Telecommunications professional,
traversed difficult terrain to reach Dhunche,
a remote village in Nepal. She and her
teammate worked late into the night to
hook up a satellite that brought internet
and communications capabilities to the
only medical unit in the region.
Unrivaled Dedication
Volunteers, like Julie, comprise 90 percent of the American Red Cross workforce.
8
7.8 million
people around the world
received disaster assistance
Worked in 33countries to
help prepare for disasters and
build community resilience
Vaccinated
215 million
children against measles
Helped more than
13,000 families in the
U.S. searching for loved ones
following armed conflicts and
disasters around the world
HIGHLIGHTS FROM FY 2015
Curtailing Ebola in Africa
In March 2014, the deadliest outbreak of Ebola in
recorded history began ravaging communities in the
West African countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra
Leone. As neighbors helped neighbors, the disease
spread quickly.
The global Red Cross network took action, deploying
more than 370 staff to the region over the course of
a year. Tracy Reines, one of seven disaster specialists
deployed by the American Red Cross, served as the
operations manager for the Red Cross response in
Liberia. Her team visited families who had come
in contact with infected people. They evaluated
neighborhood conditions, educated people on how to
prevent the disease and distributed hygiene supplies.
The American Red Cross helped map the virus in its
early stages to better target our assistance. Our support
also helped staff and volunteers in the affected countries
trace those who came in contact with Ebola victims, offer
emotional support to families, assist with clinical case
management and provide safe and dignified burials.
Osman Sesay spent time in the Red Cross treatment
center in Kenema, Sierra Leone. "I was scared," he
said. "But they treated me well. They talked to me, they
gave me medicine, they gave me food. They looked
after me and helped me get better. I don't know why
I survived when others didn't, but I am very happy to
be going home."
The Ebola outbreak took more than 10,000 lives. But
thanks to our generous donors and the work of brave
volunteers, the outbreak was brought under control
in all three countries. To ensure that these gains are
preserved--and that the outbreak is truly history--the
Red Cross is still working on the ground.
Above: Liberian National Red Cross Society volunteers distribute food in Monrovia, Liberia.
"
I was scared. But they treated
me well...they looked after me
and helped me get better."
9
Committed to Haiti
January 2015 marked five years since a 7.0 earthquake
hit Haiti, already the poorest country in the western
hemisphere. Americans were stunned to see the level
of devastation, and responded with great generosity
to help families survive, recover, and rebuild.
Thanks to our donors, over the past
five years, we have helped millions of
Haitians become safer, healthier, and
better prepared for future disasters.
Here are just a few of their stories.
Junior Ducasse lived in one of the many camps
that dotted Port-au-Prince after the earthquake, but
through an American Red Cross project, in collaboration
with CARE, he moved to a safe, earthquake-resistant
home. "When I was in the camp, I was uneasy.
Sometimes my things got stolen. I worked. I had a
lot of problems, but since I came here, I feel very
relaxed." The American Red Cross has helped more
than 132,000 people with improved housing and
neighborhood recovery, in addition to the more than
860,000 people who received emergency shelter
from the global Red Cross network immediately
after the earthquake.
Ginette Antenor is the owner of Cymara's beauty
salon in Carrefour-Feuilles. She is one of the many
entrepreneurs honing her business and marketing
skills through an American Red Cross program. "Once
we entered the project of the Red Cross, we got some
funding. There were some materials we didn't have,
so it allowed us to expand our business," she said.
The Red Cross is also offering vocational training in
Ginette's community for hundreds of people, mostly
youth, through internships and support to enterprises.
Eliese Louis gave birth to her son, Lovensky Piton,
at Mirebalais University Hospital. The American Red
Cross has provided funds to construct and operate
eight hospitals and clinics
--including $5.5 million
for Mirebalais University Hospital run by Partners In
Health; $1.3 million for a much-needed prosthetics
clinic in Port-au-Prince; and a $10 million contribution
for a hospital in Jacmel to be completed in 2016.
Left to right: Junior Ducasse, Ginette Antenor, Eliese Louis
10
The American Red Cross is dedicated to teaching people the skills they need to prepare
and respond to emergencies.
TRAINING PEOPLE TO SAVE LIVES
Red Cross Training Saves Lives
When Samuel Latham and his father were driving
from Tampa to Orlando, his father started having chest
pains. Since Samuel had taken the Red Cross Junior
Lifeguarding training course, the 12-year old knew to
stay calm and confident. He opened the American Red
Cross First Aid App and searched for what problem
might be causing his dad's symptoms. He urged him to
pull over and called 9-1-1. Thanks to Samuel's training
and the First Aid App, emergency personnel came to
the rescue and his father thankfully recovered.
Samuel's quick thinking, awareness and heroic actions
exemplify the mission of the Red Cross to teach
individuals to prepare for, respond to and prevent an
emergency. On April 8, 2015, the Red Cross presented
Samuel with the Certificate of Merit--our highest
honor for lay responders--for using skills he learned
in his Junior Lifeguarding course to handle his father's
emergency. The award bears the signature of the
President of the United States.
The Red Cross also recognizes professional rescuers
with its Lifesaving Award. The Red Cross presented
19 professionals with the Lifesaving Award and 87
lay responders with the Certificate of Merit in the past
fiscal year. These awards represent 69 incidents in which
Red Cross skills were used to sustain or save a life.
Top: Lifeguards demonstrate lifesaving skills at a waterpark. Bottom: Samuel Latham receives the Certificate of Merit.
11
Technology won't prevent a disaster, but it can
certainly help save lives. The Red Cross apps
are helping people prepare for and respond to
emergencies in the 21st century. This year, the
Red Cross hit an important milestone with the
launch of the all-inclusive Emergency App,
which pushed the number of Red Cross app
downloads to over 7 million.
The Emergency App is a single `go-to' source
for everything from a hurricane, to a severe
thunderstorm, to a home fire. It allows users to
instantly alert loved ones when a disaster is about
to strike their community and to see if they are
okay using the "Family Safe" feature. Feedback
from users has been universally positive.
New Emergency App Increases Disaster Preparedness
"
This App saved our lives last night!! We live
in the country in Texas...no sirens...the local
TV stations weren't even on. At 2:45 am we
headed for our safe area in the house...
my home security system sounded the alarm
15 min later!! Love this app!! Thank you!!"
"
I live in California and have elderly parents
in Alabama. This morning I received an
alert to tornados in their area and could call
them and make sure they were prepared.
Thank you Red Cross. You rock!!!"
Emergency App Customer Reviews
from the App Store
Taught over
4 million
people lifesaving skills
People downloaded
Red Cross apps more than
1.8 million
times
Red Cross apps sent over
412 million
weather alerts
HIGHLIGHTS FROM FY 2015
12
Thousands Learn to Swim
In its second year, the Red Cross Centennial Campaign
advances closer to achieving its goal of reducing
drowning rates by 50 percent in 50 at-risk communities.
"I've never been in nine feet before because I never
knew how to swim until now," said Elvin Valerio-Perez,
1
1, of Orlando, Florida. "Now every time I head to the
pool I can hang out with my friends in the deep end."
Since its launch in May 2014, the Red Cross has
cultivated 34 Centennial partners in more than 147
facilities across 12 states. That translates to more than
12,750 additional children and adults learning how to
swim and acquiring water safety skills. These are people
who would not have had the opportunity to gain these
lifesaving skills without the Centennial Campaign.
"So many large families were so appreciative because
they could afford to sign all of their children up for
Top: Florida children take swim lessons through the Red Cross Centennial Campaign. Bottom: Volunteer Quinn Sepe talks to students about fire prevention.
classes this summer," said Tammy Hawkins, Principal
Aquatics Specialist, City of Las Vegas Parks and
Recreation, a Red Cross Centennial partner.
The program honors the 100-year history of the
Red Cross mission in teaching lifesaving and water
safety. It also comes at a time when a recent Red Cross
survey found that more than half of all Americans
either cannot swim or do not have all of the basic
swimming skills.
"
I never knew how to swim
until now."
13
Building Sustainability as
Demand Decreases
Over the past several years, new medical practices
and the need for fewer blood transfusions have
reduced the demand for blood products. The
Red Cross supports these significant advances in
patient blood management, but must adapt to the
decreased demand experienced across the industry,
working strategically to right-size and restructure
our Biomedical operations to adjust to these shifting
market conditions. While we have made considerable
progress, the Red Cross must continue to identify
opportunities to improve efficiencies and cut costs
where possible.
While demand has decreased, every two seconds
someone in the U.S. needs blood--in fact, each day,
the Red Cross must collect approximately 14,000
units of blood. The need for blood is constant and
we remain committed to providing patients, hospitals
and blood donors with the high level of quality service
they expect and deserve.
Empowering Blood Donors to Give
Encouraging people to donate and making it as easy
as possible remains a top Red Cross priority. Barrett
Stark, an Arkansas teen, understands the value of
every precious blood donation. Since he began his
battle with leukemia in April 2014, he has undergone
chemotherapy and bone marrow transplants and has
received dozens of blood and platelet transfusions.
The American Red Cross remains the nation's largest supplier of blood products, helping
to save trauma victims, cancer patients, those with chronic conditions and others in need.
PROVIDING BLOOD IN SEASON OF CHANGE
14
When Barrett's friends and family created a
SleevesUp blood drive in his honor, he felt the
power of their generosity. In November 2014, the
Red Cross launched SleevesUp, a website that lets
those who feel passionate about blood donation
create a virtual blood drive in honor of a loved
one, a personal milestone, or simply as a way to
encourage their community to donate.
"You are giving life," said Polly Pettey, Stark's mother.
"Even if your donation gives someone just one more
day with someone they love, that is so worth it."
The Red Cross is also leveraging technology to make
giving blood even easier. In September 2014, the Red
Cross released a first-of-its kind Blood Donor App,
which allows users to schedule blood donations, track
their total donations, earn rewards and invite friends
to join. The free tool, available in app stores, has
already been downloaded more than 350,000 times
and has been used to schedule more than 100,000
appointments.
Strengthening the Blood Donor
Community
Jillian's story (see above) is just one of 55,000 blood
donor stories shared through a project sponsored
by Dell at redcrossblood.org/socialhub. The project
explored the power of engaging and mobilizing blood
donors through social media. The results exceeded all
expectations. In the spring of 2015, these stories reached
more than 2.8 million people on Facebook, generating
65,000 likes, shares, comments and conversations.
Thanks to Dell's digital marketing expertise and
charitable support, the Red Cross has embarked on
a journey to engage blood donors socially, giving a
voice to their stories and further building our blood
donor community.
3 million people
donated approximately
5.1 million
units of blood
Donations were
processed into nearly
7 million
blood products
Donations met the needs of
patients at around
2,600
hospitals and transfusion
centers across the country
Facing page, top: Bloodmobiles provide convenience for donors. Facing page, bottom: Barrett Stark's community hosted a blood drive in his honor.
Above: A generous donor gives blood in California.
"
My mother lost her fight with cancer two years ago. During her treatments she regularly received
blood and platelet transfusions...I wanted to give back to an organization that was able to give me
extra time with my mother...The Red Cross has helped me celebrate my mom and her life by giving
life to others." Jillian Caraco
HIGHLIGHTS FROM FY 2015
15
Linking Military Families to Home
Nearly 1,000 times a day, the Red Cross receives
a call from a member of the military community
who needs assistance. Some are for joyous
occasions, such as births, and others are for
more dire circumstances.
In October, Jill and Jeff Revisky received the call
every parent dreads. The chaplain at St. Louis
University Hospital told them their son Kyle had
been in a terrible car accident and remained in
critical condition.
They knew they had to get Justin, their other son
who was stationed overseas with the army, to Kyle's
bedside. They called the Emergency Communications
number for the Red Cross, and we went to work.
Within a few hours, we helped Justin secure
emergency leave. He was able to travel home and
stay long enough to see Kyle be removed from life
support and begin his road to recovery.
Caring for America's Heroes
At the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care
Center in North Chicago, Red Cross volunteer Laura
Landoe helps ensure that no veteran faces death alone.
She is on call to support veterans who are no longer
responding to medical treatment. Landoe provides
assistance and companionship, sometimes holding a
veteran's hand, talking with them, reading to them and
singing hymns.
Landoe is one of thousands of Red Cross volunteers
who provide vital support to ill and injured service
members, veterans and their families in 1
18 military
medical facilities worldwide and 153 VA care facilities
across the country. These dedicated volunteers provide
everything from rehabilitation therapy and morale-
building activities to material assistance. They also
deliver comfort items such as toiletries, games, snacks
and phone cards to military members.
From connecting deployed service members to their families during emergencies to
supporting veterans in hospitals, the American Red Cross maintains an unwavering
commitment to the U.S. military community.
SUPPORTING MILITARY FAMILIES
16
Building Resilient Military Families
Steve and Sandy Peck, behavioral health professionals
and Red Cross volunteers, have been working together
for many years to help military families learn valuable
coping and resiliency skills in Southwest Michigan.
During an Exploring Stress and Trauma workshop,
Steve recalled a man struggling with PTSD.
"As we were all leaving, he came up to me and gave
me a hug saying, `Thanks, man. I didn't realize until
tonight how far I had come. I'm going to keep
trying in my program.' Very simply, that is why we
do Reconnections," Steve said.
As military members change assignments and cope
with deployments, they and their families face unique
demands and stressors. The Red Cross helps families
achieve resiliency through preparation briefings
and courses on Coping With Deployments and
Reconnection Workshops.
Provided more than
367,000
emergency assistance
services to members of the
military and their families
Distributed more than
170,000
comfort and therapy items at
hospitals and medical facilities
Trained more than
7,100
service members, veterans
and their families in improving
coping skills and resiliency.
"
As we were all leaving, he came
up to me and gave me a hug
saying, `Thanks, man. I didn't
realize until tonight how far
I had come. I'm going to keep
trying in my program.'"
Steve and Sandy Peck serve military families.
Facing page: A Red Cross volunteer meets with a military family in Washington, D.C. Above: A marine hugs his wife after returning from Afghanistan.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM FY 2015
17
Chairman's Council Members (Cumulative giving of $1,000,000 or more)
Chairman's Council members each have made an outstanding investment in the Red Cross and have helped provide
life-changing and lifesaving services to millions.
Trace Adkins
The Ahmanson Foundation
Anonymous (St. Joseph, MO)
Anonymous
The Anschutz Foundation
The Arcadia Foundation
Lucille & Don R. Armacost
The Bullock Family
Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Nicholas Cage
Margaret A. Cargill
Judith M. & Russell L. Carson
J. Harwood & Louise B. Cochrane
Colcom Foundation
James M. Cox Foundation
Michael & Susan Dell
John R. Denzler & Sons
The Paul Desmond Estate
Swanee & Paul J. DiMare
George S. & Dolores Dore Eccles
Foundation
Kathleen A. Ernst Charitable
Foundation
Pamela A. Farr
The Lee & Juliet Folger Fund
Sam J. Frankino Foundation
Mr. & Mrs. Robert W. Galvin
Lady Gaga & the Germanottas
The Granger Foundation
Dorrance Hill Hamilton
Mr. & Mrs. Leon "Pete" Harman
The Harriman Family
Randy Harris & Joey Proffitt Harris
Colleen G. Hempleman
The Albert M. Higley Family
Conrad N. Hilton Foundation
Mason & Mary Holland Family
Bill & Jill Howard
Jon & Karen Huntsman
The Jordan Family
Lona and Harry Jupiter
Ann F. Kaplan
Michele & Howard Kessler
Lavin Family Foundation
Jeannik Mequet Littlefield
Richard E. & Nancy Peery Marriott
Rex and Alice A. Martin
The Mazzone Family
Alvin & Wanda McCall
Susan & Craig McCaw
Bowen H. "Buzz" & Barbara McCoy
Chairman Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
Janice & Robert C. McNair
The Meadows Foundation
Robert W. Merrick
Loren E. Parks
The Robin & Richard Patton Family
The Peierls Foundation
T. Boone Pickens
The Rapaport Family
Bruce & Diana Rauner
Emily Frances & John Raymond
Julia Roberts
Lily Safra
Rowena Yarak Schaber
H. Marshall & Rae Paige Schwarz
Thomas D. Scott
Deborah G. Seymour
Jean D. Shehan
Ellen G. Shelton
Denise R. Sobel
The Steinbrenner Family
Perry & Ruby Stevens
Janet & John Swanson
J.T. Tai Foundation
Velma Wallace
Anita Zucker
The Zverina Family
THANKS TO OUR SUPPORTERS
18
Annual gifts from national corporations and foundations enable the Red Cross to make a positive difference every
day for those who rely on our services. These organizations' pre-invested donations ensure the Red Cross is always
there in times of need.
Annual Disaster Giving Program Members--$500,000+ Annually*
3M
Altria Group
American Express
Anheuser-Busch Foundation
Aon
Bank of America
BNY Mellon
Capital One
Cisco Foundation
Citi Foundation
ConAgra Foods Foundation
CSX
Darden Restaurants Foundation
Delta Air Lines
Discover
Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Edison International
Ford Motor Company
Grainger
John Deere Foundation
Johnson Controls
Kraft Foods Group Foundation
Medtronic
Meijer
Mondel
ez International Foundation
National Grid
PepsiCo Foundation
Prudential Foundation
Samsung
San Manuel Band of Mission Indians
Southwest Airlines
Sprint
Sunoco
The Pew Charitable Trusts
The TJX Companies, Inc.
United Airlines
United Technologies Corporation
Visa
Wawa
Wells Fargo
Annual Disaster Giving Program Members--$1,000,000+ Annually*
American Airlines
Anthem Foundation
Boise Paper
Caterpillar Foundation
Costco Wholesale
Disney
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Foundation
FedEx Corporation
The Home Depot
Humble Bundle
LDS Charities
Lowe's Companies, Inc.
Mazda North American Operations
Merck Foundation
Nationwide Foundation
State Farm
Target
UPS
VSPSM
Vision care for life
Mission Partner--$5,000,000+ Annually*
Walmart and the Walmart Foundation
NATIONAL CORPORATE & FOUNDATION SPONSORS
*As of June 30, 2015
19 *As of June 30, 2015
Disaster Responder Members--$250,000+ Annually*
1-800-BOARDUP
Alcoa
Astellas USA Foundation
AstraZeneca
AT&T
AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
AXA
Ball Foundation
BHP Billiton
The Clorox Company
Entergy Corporation
Farmers Insurance
General Motors Foundation
H&M
Hewlett-Packard Company
Foundation
IBM Corporation
IKEA
Ingersoll Rand Foundation
Interstate All Battery Center
Land O'Lakes, Inc.
Marsh & McLennan Companies
MetLife Foundation
Morgan Stanley
New Balance Foundation
Northrop Grumman Corporation
Northwestern Mutual and the
Northwestern Mutual Foundation
Procter & Gamble Company
PSEG Foundation
PuroClean Disaster Recovery
Residence Inn by Marriott
Ryder
San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E)
Southeastern Grocers
Home of BI-LO Harveys Winn Dixie
Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Foundation, Inc.
State Street
Swiss Re Foundation
T O Y O T A
U.S. Bank
U-Haul International
Service to the Armed Forces Giving Program Members--$250,000+ Annually*
The Home Depot LAW Foundation Reliance Steel & Aluminum Co.
The American Red Cross wishes to thank our most generous supporters.
20
n Biomedical Services $1,869.2  65.0%
n Domestic Disaster Services 356.512.0%
n Fundraising 180.9  6.0%
n Health and Safety Services 146.6  5.0%
n International Relief and Development Services 129.84.0%
n Management and General 122.0  4.0%
n Service to the Armed Forces 48.7 2.0%
n Community Services (other local programs) 43.1  2.0%
Total $2,896.8
n Products & Services $1,925.1  70.0%
n Contributions 603.6  22.0%
n Investment Income & Other 208.8  8.0%
Total $2737.5
n 
Contributions for Domestic & International
Relief, General Operations, and Endowment $503.083.0%
n 
United Way and Combined
Federated Campaign 76.9  13.0%
n Donated Materials and Services 23.74.0%
Total $603.6
American Red Cross operating funds come from three main funding sources: contributions, revenues from products
and services, and investment income and other sources. Total Red Cross operating revenues and gains for fiscal year
2015 were $2,737.5 million. Red Cross total expenses were $2,896.8 million. Net assets were $1,594 million.
NOTE: The complete audited consolidated financial statements of the American Red Cross for fiscal year 2015 may be obtained online at
redcross.org/pubs or by contacting the American Red Cross Inquiry Center, 43118th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20006, (202) 303-4498.
Fiscal Year 2015 (7/1/2014-6/30/15)
SOURCES OF FINANCIAL SUPPORT
Operating Revenues and Gains (in millions)
Contributions (in millions)
Operating Expenses (in millions)
Net Assets (in billions):  $1.594 
21
Board of Governors
(as of October 31, 2015)
Honorary Chairman
Barack H. Obama
President of the United States
Chairman
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
CEO
Pace Communications, Inc.
Greensboro, North Carolina
Vice Chairmen
Laurence E. Paul, M.D.
Melanie R. Sabelhaus
Board of Governors Members
Jennifer Bailey
Vice President--Apple Pay
Apple, Inc.
Cupertino, California
Ajay Banga
President and CEO
MasterCard
Purchase, New York
Afsaneh M. Beschloss
President and CEO
The Rock Creek Group
Washington, D.C.
Enrique A. Conterno
Senior Vice President and President
Lilly Diabetes
Eli Lilly and Company
Indianapolis, IN
Richard K. Davis
Chairman, President and CEO
U.S. Bancorp
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Allan I. Goldberg, M.D.
Leader, U.S. Advocacy and
Professional Affairs
U.S. Medical Affairs
Merck & Co., Inc.
North Wales, Pennsylvania
AMERICAN RED CROSS LEADERSHIP
James W. Keyes
CEO, Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Markets
Chairman, Wild Oats Marketing, LLC
Torrance, California
Joseph E. Madison
Broadcaster
Sirius XM Radio, Inc.
Washington, D.C.
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
CEO
Pace Communications, Inc.
Greensboro, North Carolina
Gail J. McGovern
President and CEO
The American National Red Cross
Washington, D.C.
Suzanne Nora Johnson
Former Vice Chairman
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Santa Monica, California
Richard C. Patton
Founder and Chief Manager
Courage Capital Management, LLC
Nashville, Tennessee
Laurence E. Paul, M.D.
Managing Principal
Laurel Crown Partners LLC
Santa Monica, California
Melanie R. Sabelhaus
Entrepreneur and Philanthropist
Naples, Florida
David A. Thomas, Ph.D.
Dean and William R. Berkley Chair
Georgetown University
McDonough School of Business
Washington, D.C.
Carol Tome
Chief Financial Officer and Executive
Vice President--Corporate Services
The Home Depot
Atlanta, Georgia
Tina M. Tyler
Executive Vice President and
Chief Stores Officer
Target Corporation
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Corporate Officers
(as of October 31, 2015)
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
Chairman
Gail J. McGovern
President and CEO
David Meltzer
General Counsel and
Chief International Officer
Brian J. Rhoa
Chief Financial Officer
Jennifer L. Hawkins
Corporate Secretary
Executive Leadership
Suzanne C. DeFrancis
Chief Public Affairs Officer
Shaun P. Gilmore
President, Biomedical Services
Cliff Holtz
President, Humanitarian Services
Melissa B. Hurst
Chief Human Resources Officer
Kevin Jessar
Corporate Ombudsman
Neal Litvack
Chief Marketing Officer
Jack McMaster
President, Preparedness and
Health and Safety Services
Floyd Pitts
Chief Diversity Officer
22
ABOUT THE AMERICAN RED CROSS
This report was produced by the national headquarters of the American Red Cross.
Suzanne C. DeFrancis
Chief Public Affairs Officer
Brian McArthur
Vice President, Enterprise Communications
Jeanette Ortiz-Osorio
Director, Photography & Image Management
Victoria Hurley
Photo and Digital Asset Librarian
Michele Lumet
Print Production Coordinator
Laura Price
Writer
Allison Walsh
Senior Designer
Photography Credits
All photos are property of the American Red Cross unless otherwise noted.
Cover: Hector Emanuel. Page 1: (c)Rhoda Baer. Page 2: Daniel Cima. Page 3: Dave Keslick/American
Red Cross Central and South Texas. Page 4 (top to bottom): Nate Burdine/Mudmile Communications;
Mark McElroy/American Red Cross Serving DFW. Page 5: American Red Cross. Page 6 (top to bottom):
Palani Mohan/IFRC; Ly Nguyen/IFRC. Page 7: Ewan Coldicott/New Zealand Red Cross. Page 8: Victor
Lacken/IFRC. Page 9: Rodrigo Ordonez. Page 10 (top to bottom): Michael Del Polito; Erin Pagan. Page 12
(top to bottom): Connie Harvey; Chuck Haupt. Page 13 (top to bottom): Jody Lane; Jordan Ray. Page 14:
Jody Lane. Page 15: Dennis Drenner. Page 16 (top to bottom): Daryl Herrmann; courtesy of DVIDS.
@redcross
facebook.com/redcross
To learn more, or to find out how to donate time, money or blood, visit redcross.org or follow
us on Facebook and Twitter.
(c) 2016 The American National Red Cross
The American Red Cross name and emblem are registered trademarks of the American Red Cross.
Principles of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Network
Humanity * Impartiality * Neutrality * Independence * Voluntary Service * Unity * Universality
Mission Statement
The American Red Cross prevents and alleviates human suffering in the face of emergencies
by mobilizing the power of volunteers and the generosity of donors.
redcross.org
A501-15
128506
