pedaids.org // 1
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
MAKING AN
AIDS-FREE
GENERATION
A REALITY
ANNUAL REPORT // 2013 //
pedaids.org // 2
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
--
PRESIDENT'S
MESSAGE
In 2013, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS
Foundation (EGPAF) commemorated a quarter
century of leadership in the battle against
pediatric HIV/AIDS. Our journey, which began
with three friends around a kitchen table, has
shaped the organization that we are today:
a global champion of mothers, children,
and families.
Since our founding 25 years ago, there has been
a 95 percent decline in new HIV infections in
children in the United States and a 58 percent
decline worldwide.
But today, just as when we were founded,
children continue to be left behind when it
comes to HIV. Globally, only one-quarter of
HIV-positive children are accessing treatment.
And without treatment, nearly half of those
children will die before the age of 2. Every day,
almost 700 babies are infected with HIV because
their families lack access to the health services
that they need to prevent transmission.
photo: EGPAF/Georgina Goodwin
pedaids.org // 3
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
WE ARE LEADING AN INTEGRATED
AND SUSTAINABLE FIGHT TO END PEDIATRIC AIDS
To reach mothers and babies who have been left behind, we are leading the
way with an integrated sustainable global approach. We can't end the AIDS
epidemic without also improving maternal health and child survival rates and
overcoming the barriers to health care caused by poverty, lack of education,
and underdeveloped health systems.
WE ARE REACHING FAMILIES IN AREAS OF THE WORLD
HARDEST HIT
Nearly 70 percent of the people infected with HIV live in sub-Saharan Africa.
With support from our donors, we work with ministries of health, nongovernmental
organizations, and other partners in 13 nations in sub-Saharan Africa and in India--
strengthening health systems and helping to move HIV services into areas that
are most underserved.
One in six HIV-positive pregnant women worldwide receives services for the
prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV through programs
supported by EGPAF and its affiliates.
WE SEE AN AIDS-FREE GENERATION ON THE HORIZON
Progress is building toward an HIV-free generation. In 2013, we passed
a significant milestone when U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry announced that
1 million babies had been born HIV-free over the past 10 years through programs
supported by the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, one of EGPAF's
key funding partners.
Over the past decade, we have been a leading force in helping to build national
health systems that are accountable, effective, and sustainable.
After 25 years, we remain passionately committed to continuing this fight--
until no child has AIDS.
CHARLES LYONS // President and CEO,
the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Appolinaire Tiam, M.D., EGPAF-Lesotho's Country Director
After 25 years, we remain passionately committed
to continuing this fight--until no child has AIDS.
pedaids.org // 4
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
It is my personal privilege
to join you in recognizing
the 25th anniversary of this
organization. In the past ten
years, a quarter million
babies have been born
without HIV because of
your work. So there is
a lot to celebrate.
Sec. Hillary Rodham Clinton, recipient of EGPAF's Global Impact Award,
Dec. 3, 2013
photo: Getty Images Entertainment/Cindy Ord
pedaids.org // 5
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
The Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation seeks to prevent
HIV infection and to eradicate pediatric AIDS through research,
advocacy, and prevention and treatment programs.
When Elizabeth and Paul Glaser learned that Elizabeth and their
children, Ariel and Jake, were infected with HIV, they spared nothing
to save their lives. Following Ariel's death in 1988, Elizabeth turned
tragedy into hope by joining with her two close friends, Susie Zeegen
and Susan DeLaurentis, to create the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS
Foundation. Elizabeth lost her battle with AIDS in 1994, but her work
set in motion the research and programs that saved the life of her son,
Jake, along with millions of children worldwide.
Elizabeth's spirit lives on in the work of the foundation
named in her honor.
Every child
deserves a lifetime.
Elizabeth Glaser (1947-1994)
--
OUR GLOBAL MISSION
OUR HISTORY
photo: EGPAF
pedaids.org // 6
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
2013 marked the 10-year anniversary of the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
(PEPFAR), which has been vital to our expansion into countries with greatest need. As U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry announced in June 2013, one million babies have been born HIV-free
thanks to PEPFAR. One-quarter of those healthy births are due to the work of EGPAF.
03.13
01.13
--
EGPAF supported and co-organized a think tank in Entebbe, Uganda,
Jan. 22-23, in collaboration with the Global HIV Vaccine Enterprise
and the International Maternal Pediatric Adolescent AIDS Clinical Trials
(IMPAACT) Network. The meeting brought together stakeholders to
discuss new prevention modalities in breastfeeding HIV-exposed infants.
EGPAF President Charles Lyons briefed a closed session of the full UN
Committee on the Rights of the Child, calling on the committee to prioritize
the needs of children living with HIV from a right-to-health perspective.
--
During the 20th annual Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic
Infections (CROI) in Atlanta, Ga., March 3-6, researcher Deborah Persaud,
M.D., announced that an infant had been functionally cured of HIV
following a period of antiretroviral treatment. Despite later news that
detectable levels of the virus had re-established in the child's body, this
scientific breakthrough will continue to help researchers understand how
to control HIV and, ultimately, develop a cure. Persaud was the recipient of
the 2005 Elizabeth Glaser Scientist Award (EGSA).
During CROI, EGPAF established the Pediatric Cure Consortium (PCC),
governed by a scientific advisory board co-chaired by Persaud and EGPAF
board member Mike McCune, M.D., an EGSA recipient in 1996. Through
this consortium, EGPAF is providing seed funding for the most promising
ideas, supporting think tanks, and ensuring the sharing of key data and
research results.
In advance of the Annual Day on the Rights of the Child, EGPAF held
its first briefing at a UN Human Rights Council meeting on March 6.
The event drew attention to disparities in access to HIV treatment by
children compared to adults.
--
2013 MILESTONES
pedaids.org // 7
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
05.13
04.13
--
EGPAF organized a meeting in Washington, D.C., with representatives from
Sanofi-Pasteur, Novartis, the IMPAACT Network, and the National Institutes
of Health (NIH) to push for inclusion of infants in HIV vaccine research,
specifically to prevent transmission of HIV through breast milk.
On April 8, EGPAF Ambassadors Fortunata Kasege and Florida Mwesiga
and EGPAF CEO Charles Lyons represented the organization at the
UNAIDS Together We Will End AIDS breakfast briefing on Capitol Hill. They
were joined by Ambassador Eric Goosby, with the Office of the U.S. Global
AIDS Coordinator; Michel Sidibe, executive director of UNAIDS; and Oscar
winner Charlize Theron. Attendees included House of Representatives
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, other high-level members of Congress,
congressional staff, and global opinion leaders in the fight against HIV/
AIDS. The event focused on how partnerships among stakeholders,
governments, and private organizations have played an integral role in
changing the trajectory of the HIV pandemic.
--
On May 6, EGPAF hosted a bipartisan briefing on Capitol Hill with
World Vision and Save the Children to educate Capitol Hill staff about
how U.S. investments have reduced child mortality and improved the lives
of children around the world. EGPAF Vice President of Research Laura
Guay led a presentation explaining how pediatric HIV prevention and
treatment programs fit into and rely on the maternal, newborn, and child
health framework.
AIDS is no longer just a disease; it's a human rights issue.
Nelson Mandela (1918-2013)
pedaids.org // 8
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
07.13
06.13
--
EGPAF held its 24th annual A Time for Heroes celebrity picnic in
Los Angeles, Calif., on June 2. EGPAF called on those in attendance
and supporters around the world to become heroes for the mothers
and children fighting HIV/AIDS worldwide.
On June 18--at an event to celebrate the 10-year anniversary of the
U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)--U.S. Secretary
of State John Kerry announced that 1 million babies have been born
free of HIV around the world thanks to PEPFAR. EGPAF has been a
key implementer of PEPFAR since 2003 and contributed to preventing
transmission of HIV to one-quarter of those healthy babies.
The International AIDS Society (IAS) conference was held in Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia, June 30-July 3. The conference featured experts from EGPAF,
who gave oral presentations, moderated conference events, and exhibited
a variety of educational posters and abstracts. During a press briefing
at the conclusion of the conference, EGPAF Vice President of Research
Laura Guay, M.D., called on policymakers to prioritize care for mothers,
infants, children, and adolescents living with HIV.
--
EGPAF hosted two briefings with the American Foundation for AIDS Relief
(amFAR) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) to educate
Capitol Hill staff on the latest in HIV/AIDS research. EGPAF Vice President
of Research Laura Guay, M.D., joined other prominent HIV researchers
to brief congressional staff members from both chambers on exciting
advancements in preventing and treating the virus.
EGPAF provided technical support for the Heads of State Special Summit
on TB, HIV, and Malaria, held in Abuja, Nigeria, July 12-16. At the summit,
nongovernmental organizations and civil society provided input into the
African Union's positions on the health components of the post-2015
development agenda. EGPAF drafted language on elimination of mother-
to-child transmission of pediatric AIDS, which was included in the final
Abuja Declaration 2013.
When a baby is born infected with HIV, it is a big blow ...
pedaids.org // 9
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
Pauline Njuguna, a participant in EGPAF's AIDS Response in Forces
in Uniform program in Kenya and a PMTCT peer mentor
12.13
11.13
--
EGPAF launched a retrospective on its website. Connected: 25 Years
Fighting for Mothers, Children, and Families is a collection of stories that
celebrate a quarter century of our shared commitment to end pediatric
AIDS. Profiles featured in the series include Susie Zeegen; Susan
DeLaurentis; Jake Glaser; Michael Gottlieb, M.D.; and others involved in
EGPAF's early days, as well as friends, allies, and ambassadors throughout
the years. The stories can be read at www.pedaids.org/25years.
Results from an EGPAF family planning/HIV-integration pilot program in
rural Tanzania were presented at an international family planning meeting
in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, held Nov. 12-15. The study, supported by the
United Nations Population Fund, assessed changes in the provision of
family planning counseling and use of family planning methods among
HIV-positive clients who visit care and treatment clinics.
--
On Dec. 4, EGPAF honored former Secretary of State and U.S. Senator
Hillary Rodham Clinton with a Global Impact Award for her leadership
in the fight against HIV/AIDS. During Clinton's speech, she recalled her
friendship with Elizabeth Glaser and Elizabeth's tenacity in the fight to end
pediatric HIV/AIDS: "Elizabeth was a loving mother, a devoted friend,
and an eloquent, passionate, unstoppable woman."
President Nelson Mandela died on Dec. 5, as experts in the field of
HIV were gathering in Cape Town, South Africa, for the International
Conference on AIDS and STIs in Africa (ICASA). EGPAF honors the
transformative legacy of President Mandela as an advocate for human
rights and HIV prevention and treatment.
Health researchers, policy professionals, and program implementers from
around the world met in Cape Town, South Africa, Dec. 7-12, for ICASA
2013. The international conference featured several experts from EGPAF,
who gave oral presentations, moderated events, and exhibited a variety of
educational posters and abstracts.
... but when a baby is born HIV-negative,
I feel like I have 100 years to live.
EGPAF operates in 15 countries,
13 of which are in sub-Saharan
Africa--the area of the world hit
hardest by the AIDS epidemic.
As of Dec. 31, 2013, the
Elizabeth Glaser
Pediatric AIDS Foundation
health facilities worldwide
actively supports
women with services to prevent
transmission of HIV to their babies
individuals, including 200,000
children, in care and treatment
programs
has enrolled
has reached
7,000
19,000,000
2,200,000
--
OUR GLOBAL
REACH
--
OUR GLOBAL PROGRAMS
In 2013, EGPAF's dedicated staff of nearly
1,000 helped save millions of lives in collaboration with key
partners, including the United States government; ministries
of health in host countries; multilateral organizations such
as UNAIDS, the United Nations International Children's
Emergency Fund (UNICEF), and the World Health
Organization (WHO); and private donors. Most EGPAF
staff members are nationals of the countries most affected
by HIV and AIDS. Their work in those countries fosters
greater efficiency and national ownership.
The following case studies focus on EGPAF's work to prevent
and treat HIV while strengthening health systems.
--
pedaids.org // 12
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
--
LIFELONG TREATMENT
GIVES LIFELONG
HOPE TO FAMILIES
IN LESOTHO
Nteboheleng lives in a cement-block house in
Mafeteng, Lesotho. A soft-spoken woman with
a brilliant smile, Nteboheleng works as a quality
control officer at a local textile factory. She is
studying part-time and hopes to get a higher-
paying job eventually.
Five months into her pregnancy, Nteboheleng
went for a prenatal visit at the maternal and
child health clinic at Mafeteng Hospital and
received an HIV test.
The bad news is that Nteboheleng tested
positive for HIV. The good news is that she
was initiated that very day onto antiretroviral
treatment (ART) that will protect her and her
unborn child through pregnancy, childbirth,
breastfeeding, and beyond.
photo: EGPAF/Heather Mason
pedaids.org // 13
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
"I am now okay with my status," says Nteboheleng. "I thought when I learned
I was HIV-positive that I was going to get sick. But I am now stronger than before.
Getting into treatment before I got sick ... I really appreciate that."
In April 2013, the Lesotho Ministry of Health, with assistance from EGPAF and
other partners, adopted a new set of World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines
for treatment of pregnant women living with HIV. The revised guidelines, known
as Option B+, are designed to optimize prevention of mother-to-child transmission
(PMTCT) of HIV. They recommend that pregnant women and nursing mothers
who test HIV-positive be enrolled immediately onto ART and remain on treatment
for life.
"Option B+ optimizes the mother's health while protecting the baby," says EGPAF-
Lesotho Country Director Appolinaire Tiam, M.D. "I love it. The focus is no longer
only on the baby; the focus is also on the mother."
Lesotho is only the second country--after Malawi--to implement Option B+
nationwide all at once, a daunting task in a resource-limited country with difficult
terrain. Dr. Tiam explains that unlike some other countries that have struggled in
their attempts to roll out Option B+, Lesotho did extensive preparation to ensure a
successful transition.
As the co-chair of Lesotho's PMTCT technical working group, EGPAF has played
a large role in the transition, providing technical assistance to create the new
guidelines, translating those guidelines into training materials, and rolling out the
program at health facilities nationwide.
"EGPAF also has staff in the field to fill the gap in terms of human resources," says
Dr. Tiam. "Integrated PMTCT and MCH nurses are giving site-level mentorship at
health facilities around the country and supporting Ministry of Health teams."
"At the clinic they take care of us," says Nteboheleng. "They treat us as
their families. Since I've learned my status I am very, very happy, and I am also
talking to other women about learning their status. To be HIV-positive is not
what we think."
Since 2004, EGPAF has worked in partnership with Lesotho's Ministry of Health,
district health teams, health facilities, and community leaders. To help Lesotho
scale up lifelong treatment for pregnant women living with HIV--known as Option
B+--EGPAF has strengthened the Lesotho health system through targeted
technical and operational assistance. With the Lesotho Ministry of Health, EGPAF
is helping to integrate HIV/AIDS services within broader maternal, newborn, and
child health services at every health facility in the country.
Appolinaire Tiam, M.D., EGPAF-Lesotho's country director
EGPAF has staff in the field,
to fill the gaps.
pedaids.org // 14
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
--
A NEW GENERATION
OF HEALTH WORKERS
PREPARES TO
EXPAND HEALTH CARE
IN RURAL MALAWI
Charity Mpokosa is a young woman
from rural Malawi who has come to the
Kamuzu College of Nursing in the capital,
Lilongwe, with the ambition of becoming a
nurse midwife. In her home community,
most of the people are subsistence farmers
with little access to health services.
"My community's health center lacks
health workers, and it is a huge problem,
especially for women and children who seek
out its services," says Charity.
photo: EGPAF/James Pursey
pedaids.org // 15
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
Appolinaire Tiam, M.D., EGPAF-Lesotho's Country Director
My community's health center lacks health workers, and it is
a huge problem, especially for women and children who seek
out its services. I am very happy that I will be able to assist
people in my community after I am done with my studies.
As a recipient of a new scholarship program administered by EGPAF, within
three years Charity will be joining other newly credentialed health technicians in
providing health care in remote areas of her district.
"In rural areas in particular, there are simply not enough frontline health care
workers available to provide adequate HIV services," said Nicole Buono, the
country director of EGPAF-Malawi. "EGPAF is thrilled to help address this serious
gap in human resources for health through this new program."
Working in close collaboration with Malawi's Ministry of Health, EGPAF is
providing scholarships for 49 nurse midwife technicians and 21 medical assistants.
The participants have been chosen from regions near health centers that lack
trained staff.
After graduating, the newly trained health care workers are committed to serving
in their remote communities for a minimum of five years. In addition to increasing
the total number of health care workers in Malawi, this program will improve staff
retention at rural and difficult-to-staff health centers.
"I am very happy that I will be able to assist people in my community after I am
done with my studies," says Charity.
Since 2001, EGPAF has worked with the Malawi Ministry of Health and other local
partners to provide services to help women living with HIV prevent transmission
of the virus to their babies. EGPAF's work includes district-level health system
strengthening and capacity-building of community organizations.
Charity Mpokosa, EGPAF scholarship recipient, Malawi
pedaids.org // 16
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
--
DISPENSARIES SERVE
AS COMPREHENSIVE
FAMILY CLINICS
IN KENYA
Growing up in the county of Homa Bay, Kenya,
Caroline Atieno watched the AIDS epidemic
burn through the coastal towns and villages
around Lake Victoria. Just a decade ago, more
than one-third of the people living in Homa Bay
were infected with HIV. As recently as five years
ago, Homa Bay County had plenty of work for
carpenters, who were building nearly 90 coffins
each week for those who had died of AIDS-
related illnesses. At least 25 of the wooden boxes
were for infants.
"I decided to become a nurse when I realized
how much suffering was surrounding me,"
says Atieno, "especially among individuals and
families dealing with HIV."
photo: EGPAF
pedaids.org // 17
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
I decided to become a nurse when I realized how much
suffering was surrounding me, especially among
individuals and families dealing with HIV.
Atieno was working as a nurse at the Homa Bay District Hospital in 2008, when
the Kenyan Ministry of Health began managing the Ngegu Dispensary and
transferred her to the facility as the nursing officer head. Two years later, the
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF) began supporting the work of
Atieno and her two nurses.
In Kenya, dispensaries are more than distribution points for medicine; they are
often the only health facility for rural families. Through the work of a handful of
health workers, a dispensary delivers basic care, including immunization, first aid,
and management of common illnesses.
Until four years ago, the Ngegu Dispensary could only provide testing and
counseling when it came to HIV. Women who tested positive were sent to other
health care centers, sometimes hours away by bus.
But through EGPAF's Pamoja project, Caroline's passion has transformed the
dispensary into a full-service facility with a holistic, family-focused approach to
HIV--providing HIV care and treatment and services for the prevention of mother-
to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV. The facility also provides male circumcision,
child health services, and basic laboratory services.
Through integrated services, the dispensary can provide care to more people,
which means testing more people for HIV, and enrolling more women in PMTCT.
This approach is working. It is now rare that an HIV-positive woman who has come
to the dispensary delivers a child infected with the virus.
Atieno sees as many as 100 patients a day, which is a big change from the early
days when she would see a dozen. When asked how often she leaves at 5 p.m.,
Atieno laughs and says that she works until the queue has cleared, which might
be quite late.
Five years ago, carpenters around Homa Bay put in long hours to keep up with
the demand fueled by HIV. Now Atieno and her staff are putting in long hours to
give those carpenters a rest.
The Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation began working in Kenya in 2000
as a small, privately funded PMTCT initiative and has since grown into one of the
largest HIV prevention, care, and treatment organizations in the country. EGPAF is
a key partner of Kenya's Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation and the Ministry
of Medical Services.
Caroline Atieno, RN, Ngegu, Kenya
--
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
Since its inception, EGPAF has demonstrated global leadership in pediatric AIDS
research. We support innovative projects, collaborate with the brightest minds, and bridge
gaps within the medical and research communities--to ensure that children, mothers, and
families in the areas of the world hardest hit by HIV are served with the
best medical information and practices.
In the United States and other countries with strong health systems, there is a common
misconception that pediatric AIDS is an issue of the past. This belief is bolstered by the
success of research funded by the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation.
Today fewer than 200 infants in the United States are infected with HIV each year.
But with nearly 700 children newly infected with HIV each day across the globe, research is
as important today as it was when EGPAF was founded 25 years ago. There is still no cure
for HIV, so research on finding a cure remains a high priority. Finding the best treatments for
children in low-resource locations is another top priority.
EGPAF-supported research around the world seeks to improve the prevention, care,
and treatment of pediatric HIV infection; identify better technologies and interventions;
train international research leaders to respond to the virus in children; and pursue the
development of a pediatric HIV vaccine.
Because of our work in thousands of health care sites, we are able to offer research-based
innovations to the families that need them by influencing local policy and practices.
During 2013, EGPAF led 41 active research projects.
--
--
RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS
THE PEDIATRIC CURE CONSORTIUM
In 2013, EGPAF established the Pediatric Cure Consortium
to focus the research agenda on children and to drive progress
to find a cure. The Consortium, led by EGPAF staff and an
International Pediatric Cure Consortium Advisory Board of
scientists, seeks to enhance scientific collaboration to determine
research priorities and to garner resources for the cure of HIV
infection in children. Through this forum, EGPAF will provide seed
funding for the most promising ideas, support think tanks, and
ensure the sharing of key data and research results.
--
pedaids.org // 20
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
--
RESEARCH FOR A
LONG LIFE:
THE KABEHO STUDY
IN RWANDA
Vincent Iyamuremye, a research study
nurse at the Kimisagara Health Center in Kigali,
Rwanda, pokes his head out of his office into the
hall. A half-dozen colorfully dressed mothers
and their babies wait on wooden benches.
Vincent waves one woman in. She sits down,
baby squirming in her lap. The woman is one
of 104 mothers he sees, the most of any health
center involved in the EGPAF research project
called the Kabeho Study.
photo: EGPAF/Laura Elizabeth Pohl
pedaids.org // 21
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
The findings from this study are going to help us
understand what is happening in terms of feeding the babies
and anything we can do to ascertain the needs of babies
exposed to HIV. Many, many people are watching this study.
In the local language of Kinyarwanda, Kabeho is a word for wishing someone a
long life. The Kabeho Study is following 608 HIV-positive mother-baby pairs in
Rwanda to examine breastfeeding practices, HIV treatment adherence, nutrition,
and the HIV-free survival rates of the children. Researchers are examining the
outcomes of the HIV programs and policies that EGPAF has helped establish
since it began working in Rwanda in 2001.
"What did you feed your baby in the last 24 hours?" Iyamuremye amiably asks the
mother. He holds up a clear baby bottle with markings on it. The mother points to
a mark near the top, and Vincent writes in the mother's binder. The questions and
answers about the baby's diet go on for about 30 minutes.
This 24-hour food recall is an important component of the Kabeho study because
collecting accurate feeding data is essential to understanding the role of nutrition
in preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV. The combination of a good
diet and HIV medication could reduce the chances that HIV-exposed children will
contract the virus.
As the nurses collect information and input it into electronic tablets, Dieudonne
Ndatimana sits in a sparse office in Kigali downloading, compiling, and evaluating
all that information. Ndatimana is the data manager on the Kabeho Study, and he's
a fan of clean data, meaning that the information collected by the study nurses is
valid and accurate.
Since the Kabeho study tracks mothers and babies through the children's first
18 months of life, results won't be ready until December 2015, published shortly
thereafter. Ndatimana and the study nurses and even the mothers are excited to
find out the results.
"The women, they have the feeling they're providing information that would help
lead to elimination of HIV," said Juliette Mukayinga, a research study nurse at the
Remera Health Center. "They usually say, `Even if this might not be very helpful
to our current babies, but at least it's for those who will be born later and have a
great chance of being negative.'"
Studies like this directly support EGPAF's health-system-strengthening efforts. For
instance, the findings from the Kabeho study will be used to inform the Rwandan
implementation of lifelong treatment (Option B+). The protocols, data collection
tools, standard operating procedures, and other tools can also be adapted to
other contexts in Rwanda and other countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
The Kabeho Study is funded through the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the U.S. President's Emergency Plan
for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).
Jeanine Chondo, M.D., deputy dean of Rwanda's School of Public Health, Kigali, Rwanda
--
SUSIE ZEEGEN FUND
POSTDOCTORAL AWARDEE:
LINDSAY WIECZOREK, PH.D.
Named for one of EGPAF's co-founders, the Susie Zeegen Fund Postdoctoral Award is
a two-year grant to support postdoctoral fellows conducting immunologic or virologic
research. In 2013, Lindsay Wieczorek, Ph.D., was the award recipient.
Wieczorek works at the U.S. Military HIV Research Program in the Laboratory of
Humoral Immunology. Supported by the Susie Zeegen Fund, Wieczorek is studying the
role of antibodies in preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV during childbirth.
Her goal is to translate the research findings into a design of an effective HIV vaccine.
"Receiving this award is a great honor," says Wieczorek. "Professionally, it means that
our research on perinatal transmission of HIV can continue, moving us closer to better
understanding--and one day preventing--infection.
"Personally, as a mother, I know there is no greater priority than protecting our children.
This award allows me to bridge these interests," she adds.
--
--
PUBLIC POLICY AND ADVOCACY
When Elizabeth Glaser discovered that the medicines prolonging her own
life were unavailable to her young daughter, Ariel, because they had not yet been
tested on children, she became one of the first persons to champion the needs of
children living with HIV. Building on Elizabeth's legacy, EGPAF's public policy
and advocacy team works with policymakers around the world to continue the
work she started, advocating for the best public policies for children, women,
and families infected with and affected by HIV and AIDS.
Today, EGPAF works with a variety of key stakeholders to make pediatric HIV/AIDS
a priority in the global health agenda, with a particular focus on prevention of mother-to-
child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) and pediatric care and treatment issues. In creating the
most advantageous political and social environment for support of EGPAF's priorities, over
time the team has developed multiple layers of engagement in the United States, in Africa,
and in Europe. Building on our successful U.S.-based advocacy work, the team now works
with regional African entities and coalitions--such as the African Union and the Organization
of African First Ladies Against HIV/AIDS--to prioritize elimination of pediatric HIV and is
pursuing efforts in Europe to ensure that United Nations commitments to children are met.
The following represent just some of the ways that EGPAF championed
the rights of children, mothers, and families in 2013.
--
pedaids.org // 24
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
Becoming active in the fight against AIDS made me realize
I'm not a victim. I have power and I can work for change.
UNITED STATES
Reauthorization of PEPFAR Legislation
EGPAF took a leadership role in ushering the PEPFAR Stewardship and Oversight
Act of 2013--the legislation authorizing the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for
AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)--through both the U.S. House and the Senate. The team
worked to influence Congress's vision for the next five years of the PEPFAR
program and ensure that pediatric HIV/AIDS is prioritized. The final bill included
strong language in support of PMTCT programs, as well as specific treatment
targets for children and data reporting against those targets.
U.S. Global Health Funding
EGPAF's public policy and advocacy team continued its longtime work with
Congress to ensure that funding levels for global HIV/AIDS programs and other
critical domestic and global health programs are maintained and strengthened so
that they achieve their programmatic goals. Final global health legislation in 2013
provided a small increase to the bulk of global HIV/AIDS funding--a solid signal of
continued support for global HIV/AIDS programs, since almost every other federal
program in the legislation received no increase or was cut.
GLOBAL ADVOCACY
In 2013, EGPAF's Nairobi-based public policy staff pushed for the prioritization of
children in select global health decisions and to champion the inclusion of PMTCT
and pediatric treatment within African Union commitments to maternal, newborn,
and child health and domestic health care spending.
Key Consultations and Interventions: Africa
EGPAF's public policy team in Nairobi took part in a number of key consultations
and interventions to advocate on behalf of children. The team worked with the
African Union to host a partner consultation on the Africa Common Position, which
identifies Africa's priorities and health agenda after 2015, when the Millennium
Development Goals expire. In a related effort, the team provided technical
support to the Abuja Heads of State Special Summit, at which nongovernmental
organizations and civil society provided input into the African Union's positions on
the health components of the post-2015 development agenda. EGPAF language
on elimination of mother-to-child transmission of pediatric HIV was included in
the final Abuja Declaration 2013, which will help to shape how Africa addresses
pediatric HIV over the next 15 years.
Elizabeth Glaser (1947-1994)
pedaids.org // 25
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
GENEVA
Maximizing our presence in Europe, EGPAF's Geneva-based public policy
staff works within the UN child rights framework to hold country governments
accountable to their commitments to child's health rights, including HIV/AIDS.
KEY CONSULTATIONS AND INTERVENTIONS:
UNITED NATIONS
UN Committee on the Rights of the Child
In January 2013, EGPAF President Charles Lyons briefed a closed session of
the full UN Committee on the Rights of the Child to ensure that the committee
consider the needs of children living with HIV from a "right-to-health" perspective.
Lyons urged the committee to question governments under review about how
they are working to ensure the rights of children to have access to affordable and
effective HIV medication and treatment.
UN Human Rights Council
In advance of the Annual Day on the Rights of the Child, and in collaboration
with Caritas Internationalis and the Ecumenical Advocacy Alliance, EGPAF held a
roundtable discussion at a UN Human Rights Council meeting on March 6. EGPAF
Ambassador Josephine Nabukenya joined panelists from UNAIDS, the Rwandan
government, the Office of the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator, and the Catholic
HIV/AIDS Network. They shared their perspectives on the needs and challenges
facing children in accessing HIV treatment. In her remarks, Nabukenya made an
impassioned plea for the international community to take note of the disparities in
access by children compared to adults.
Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women
In June 2013, EGPAF submitted a report to the Committee on the Elimination
of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) regarding the situation
of women living in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, noting that there are
limited services available to women for preventing mother-to-child transmission of
HIV, and that sexual and gender-based violence is one of the greatest threats to
women's health in the country.
Today I can dream about things much bigger than my
HIV status, but I worry for those other children--those that
don't have treatment--and I will continue to fight for them
until they can dream. EGPAF Ambassador Josephine Nabukenya speaking at a UN Human Rights Council meeting
pedaids.org // 26
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
--
THAT'S WHEN I
STOPPED BEING
AFRAID TO SPEAK OUT
Josephine Nabukenya was born with HIV
outside of Kampala, Uganda. However,
Josephine was not tested for HIV, and no one in
her family was aware that she, her sisters, and
her parents were all living with the virus. By the
age of 12, Josephine was an orphan, living with
her aunt. That's when she found out.
"It felt like the whole world came to a halt," says
Josephine. Suddenly people started treating her
differently: "My aunt separated my plate and cup
from the rest of the family and I was not allowed
to use the cutlery. I wasn't even allowed into my
aunt's bedroom anymore."
photo: EGPAF
pedaids.org // 27
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
Fortunately, Josephine was directed to an Ariel Club, a special support group
created by EGPAF for children and adolescents living with HIV.
"For the first time in a long while, I had hope that I could live with HIV. In the Ariel
Club we played games, wrote, sang, and read. We also received a transport
allowance to pick up our medicine from the hospital.
"My involvement helped me to learn to accept my status and to talk openly about
living with HIV. After a year with the club, I surprised myself on World AIDS Day
and stood up to tell my personal story to hundreds of people. After my speech, I
received thunderous applause and many people, including children, thanked me
for giving them hope and encouragement. That's when I stopped being afraid to
speak out."
Josephine's determination to follow her dreams, despite her HIV status, eventually
led her to Makerere University in Kampala, where she is studying journalism.
Josephine is also an EGPAF ambassador. Whether working to educate her
community, provide peer counseling, advocate to members of the U.S. Congress,
or speak to the United Nations, Josephine speaks from the heart and from her
own experience.
Along with others in EGPAF's ambassador program, Josephine is a reminder of
the impact one person can make. EGPAF ambassadors bravely share their stories,
and by so doing educate and advocate for the millions of children infected with
and affected by HIV.
Thanks to the Ariel Club, I know I am somebody.
My advice to children who are going through similar
situations is to be strong. Don't lose heart. Take your medicines
on time and trust in God. EGPAF Ambassador Josephine Nabukenya
--
AFFILIATES
EGPAF has led the way in efforts to build local capacity for HIV service delivery, with the
ultimate goal of transitioning programs to national governments and local organizations.
As part of this commitment, EGPAF has transitioned some of its programs to three
independent, nongovernmental affiliates:
// Fondation Ariel Glaser pour la Lutte contre le Sida Pediatrique (Cote d'Ivoire) //
// Fundacao Ariel Glaser Contra o SIDA Pediatric (Mozambique) //
// Ariel Glaser Pediatric AIDS Healthcare Initiative (Tanzania) //
EGPAF and these affiliates share a mutual mission of eliminating pediatric HIV/AIDS,
and each organization works to achieve this mission in locally relevant ways. EGPAF
affiliates--which are governed by independent national boards of directors--
share the EGPAF brand and logo.
In 2013 the EGPAF affiliates celebrated their third year. Since they began
operations, the three organizations have collectively supported more than
650 health facilities, have tested nearly 900,000 women for HIV,
and have started more than 180,000 clients on HIV treatment.
We recognize the interdependence between our organization and our partners
and share knowledge and best practices to increase the sustainability of programs and
organizations so that together we will soon see an HIV-free generation.
--
pedaids.org // 29
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
HOMEGROWN CARE AND TREATMENT IN TANZANIA
Shinyanga, Tanzania, is a small town 100 miles south of Lake Victoria. The HIV
care and treatment center at the regional hospital is a prime example of EGPAF's
progress toward local ownership. Through funding from the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), EGPAF helped launch the facility in 2005.
EGPAF continued to provide support until 2011, when support was transitioned
to the Tanzania affiliate organization, the Ariel Glaser Pediatric AIDS Healthcare
Initiative (AGPAHI).
Outside the center, children climb on playground equipment. Inside,
skilled health workers treat their clients as they test for HIV and administer a
program for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT).
This program is supported under the LIFE award from the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID). EGPAF is the recipient of the award and
AGPAHI is a subrecipient.
The health workers at the Shinyanga care and treatment clinic do not only provide
PMTCT services. They also deliver babies, provide prenatal and postnatal care,
test and treat for cervical cancer, screen for tuberculosis, provide counseling, and
enroll children living with HIV into a care and treatment program.
In short, they integrate services so that families can take care of many of their
health needs in one place.
Through the work of AGPAHI, as many as 250 people are served by the clinic
each day. Ten thousand clients have received HIV care since AGPAHI took
ownership of this project, and more than 5,500 men, women, and children in the
surrounding community are currently enrolled in antiretroviral treatment so that
they can maintain good health despite living with HIV.
Around the world, EGPAF supports frontline health workers at more than 7,000
health facilities in 14 countries, working with ministries of health, nongovernmental
organizations, and affiliates like AGPAHI.
We have a unique understanding of the reality of HIV/AIDS in
our countries. By tackling the AIDS epidemic locally, we can
lead the way to global change. Paula Vaz, M.D., Ph.D., executive director of Fundacao
Ariel Glaser Contra o SIDA Pediatrico, Mozambique
--
EVENTS
In 2013, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation held two high-profile events
to gather compassionate donors and raise much-needed funds for our work.
--
pedaids.org // 31
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
--
A TIME FOR HEROES
--
photos: Getty Images Entertainment/Imeh Akpanudosen
pedaids.org // 32
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
More than 700 parents and children gathered on June 2, 2013, at Century Park
in Los Angeles, Calif., for A Time for Heroes. Teaming up with the Magic Johnson
Foundation, the annual family picnic raised more than $600,000 in support
of ending pediatric HIV and AIDS. EGPAF called on those in attendance and
supporters around the world to become heroes for the mothers and children
living with HIV.
Families enjoyed food, music, and games alongside stars from music, movies,
and television. Celebrity heroes in attendance included Miss Universe, Olivia
Culpo; recording artists Gwen Stefani, Gavin Rossdale, Jamar Rogers, and
Jessica Sanchez; and actors Olivia Munn, Holly Robinson Peete, Joe Manganiello,
Vanessa Lengies, Greer Grammer, Garrett Clayton, Mollee Gray, Grace Phipps,
Maia Mitchell, John DeLuca, and Crissty Fit.
The event also included remarks by Elizabeth Glaser's son, Jake Glaser. Fellow
EGPAF ambassadors Martha Sichone-Cameron and Jamie Gentille were also
on hand to provide encouragement about living positively with HIV. Their
participation served as a reminder of EGPAF's history and of the global impact that
the organization has had on the lives of children and families.
Since its launch in 1990, A Time for Heroes has raised more than $35 million
toward ending AIDS in children.
Achieving an AIDS-free generation is now our primary goal,
one that we know we can accomplish. There can be no excuses:
we have proven the science; we have proven the results; now we
need to make this vision a reality. Jake Glaser
pedaids.org // 33
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
--
GLOBAL IMPACT AWARD
--
photos: Getty Images Entertainment/Cindy Ord
pedaids.org // 34
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
On Dec. 3, 2013, EGPAF honored former Secretary of State and U.S. Senator
Hillary Rodham Clinton with a Global Impact Award for her leadership in the fight
against HIV and AIDS.
At the New York City event, Elizabeth's son, Jake, spoke onstage about his mother
and the incredible legacy of her foundation.
"Achieving an AIDS-free generation is now our primary goal, one that we know we
can accomplish. There can be no excuses: we have proven the science; we have
proven the results; now we need to make this vision a reality," said Jake Glaser.
EGPAF co-founder Susan DeLaurentis introduced a video detailing the special
relationship between Sec. Clinton and Elizabeth Glaser, titled Two Women, Two
Mothers, Two Leaders. Journalist Diane Sawyer presented Sec. Clinton with
the Global Impact Award, to honor her unique, unwavering, and unparalleled
leadership on behalf of women and children across the globe.
During Sec. Clinton's speech, she recalled her friendship with Elizabeth
Glaser and her tenacity in the fight to end pediatric HIV/AIDS.
"Elizabeth was a loving mother; a devoted friend; and an eloquent, passionate,
unstoppable woman," said Sec. Clinton. She "turned her personal loss into
a public campaign on behalf of children with HIV/AIDS, founding this Foundation
and inspiring so many of us to join the fight."
Sec. Clinton continued, saying it is a "personal privilege to join you in
recognizing the 25th anniversary of this organization... In the past ten years,
a quarter million babies have been born without HIV because of your work.
So there is a lot to celebrate."
Elizabeth was a loving mother; a devoted friend; and an
eloquent, passionate, unstoppable woman. [She] turned
her personal loss into a public campaign on behalf of children
with HIV/AIDS, founding this Foundation and inspiring so
many of us to join the fight. Sec. Hillary Rodham Clinton
--
OUR GENEROUS DONORS
In 2013, committed individuals, corporations, foundations, and governmental donors
contributed more than $120 million toward EGPAF's programs, research, and advocacy.
Meet some of the committed partners who helped us strengthen health systems
so that millions of mothers, children, and families will have access to services
for HIV prevention and treatment.
--
pedaids.org // 36
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
We all need to hope that our dreams can come true.
I challenge you to make it happen, because all our lives ...
depend on it.
PEDIATRIC AIDS COALITION
Founded in 2002, Dance Marathon at UCLA began as a single event. But the
students kept dancing and raising money, turning the event into a year-long
campus commitment known as the Pediatric AIDS Coalition (PAC). Through PAC,
Dance Marathon at UCLA has grown from 20 students working together to raise
$27,000 to a 125-member committee planning an event that raised more than
$475,000 in 2013. In its 12-year history, PAC has raised $3.5 million, with EGPAF
as the primary beneficiary. Today, Dance Marathon at UCLA is one of several
annual UP 4 THE FIGHT dance marathons held at colleges and universities to
raise awareness and funds for EGPAF throughout the school year.
RITA BRAVER AND BOB BARNETT
Rita Braver and Bob Barnett have supported EGPAF since its very first fundraising
gala, A Night to Unite, in Washington, D.C., 25 years ago. The mission of EGPAF
is incredibly personal to them. They both attended the University of Wisconsin,
Madison, with Elizabeth, and she stayed with them when she traveled to
Washington, D.C., in the late 1980s to lobby the National Institutes of Health and
members of Congress for funds for pediatric HIV/AIDS. Rita and Bob continue to
generously support EGPAF and are proud of the evolution of EGPAF's work and
the number of mothers, children, and families it has served.
GREGG AND DEBRA OPPENHEIMER
Gregg and Debbie Oppenheimer are longtime dedicated supporters of EGPAF's
work to end AIDS in children. One example of this dedication is their selection
of EGPAF as the beneficiary of proceeds from several I Love Lucy-related items,
including the wonderful memoir Laughs, Luck...and Lucy: How I Came to Create
the Most Popular Sitcom of All Time, written by Gregg with his father, creator of
the classic sitcom. EGPAF is so appreciative of Gregg and Debbie's many years of
continued support. They are a remarkable testament to the difference that one
family can make to help families worldwide.
We are grateful to everyone who shares our commitment to achieving
an AIDS-free generation. Even a small contribution can save lives by paying
for an HIV test kit or other intervention services.
Individuals, businesses, and others can support the work of EGPAF by visiting
www.pedaids.org and making a contribution.
To learn more about opportunities to make an impact on EGPAF's work,
including via financial and estate planning, please contact donate@pedaids.org.
Elizabeth Glaser (1947-1994)
pedaids.org // 37
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
GREATER THAN $1 MILLION
The Children's Investment Fund Foundation
Department of Foreign Affairs,
Trade and Development Canada
Swedish International Development
Cooperation Agency
United States Agency
for International Development
United States Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention
$100,000--$999,999
Absolute Return for Kids
Anonymous
Willow Bay and Robert Iger
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Charities Aid Foundation
Communications Workers of America
Conrad N. Hilton Foundation
Department for International Development
Drs. Susan D. Desmond-Hellmann
and Nicholas S. Hellmann
Disney Worldwide Services, Inc.
Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria
Jewelers for Children
Johnson & Johnson
Oak Foundation
Stavros Niarchos Foundation
ViiV Healthcare
$10,000--$99,999
Accenture Ltd.
The Apatow-Mann Family Foundation
Adam and Abbe Aron
Mark and Deborah Attanasio
Bain and Company, Inc.
Bill and Susan Belfiore
Dawn M. Berson
Bridgestone Americas Trust Fund
Brotman Foundation of California
Cayman National Bank
CBS Television Network
Cole-Crone Family Foundation
Jane Chung and Robert M. Nagle
The Deborah J. Leschin Trust
Mary B. Dunn
Edward D. and Anna Mitchell Family Foundation
Entrust Capital
David I. and Marianna J. Fisher
Calista Flockhart and Harrison L. Ford
Fortress Investment Group LLC
Estate of Beatriz Foster
Fox Entertainment Group
Jennifer Fox and Thomas Murray
Girard-Perregaux
Goodwin Family Memorial Trust
Google
Hackberry Endowment Partners
Russ and Mary Beth Hagey
Independent Charities of America
J. Walter Thompson USA
James & Deborah Burrows Foundation
John W. Carson Foundation, Inc.
Kadrovach-Duckworth Family Foundation
The Marilyn and Jeffrey Katzenberg Foundation
Louis and Harold Price Foundation
Magic Johnson Foundation, Inc.
The McGrath Abrams Family Foundation
The MCJ Amelior Foundation
John and Lizanne Megrue, Jr.
Moss Foundation
Peter and Susan Murley
National Basketball Association
Nordstrom, Inc.
The Randi and Clifford Lane Foundation
Richard A. Busemeyer Atheist Foundation
Shout! Factory, LLC
Justin and Nancy Slatky
Steven & Heather Mnuchin Foundation
Sunshine on You Foundation
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
Viacom
William Gruen Living Trust
George W. and Patricia A. Wellde
Richard and Noelle Wolf
World Health Organization
The Wunderkinder Foundation
YourCause, LLC
$1,000--$9,999
Abbott Fund
The Ahmanson Foundation
Alpha Lambda Sigma
The Anne Claire Lester Foundation, Inc.
Angry Bee Juice
Ares Management
Phillip D. and Maria L. Baker
Zlata Baldekova
Bank of America Foundation Matching Gift Program
Samantha S. Bass
The Bill Muster Foundation
BLH Technologies, Inc
Blue State Digital
Bridgewater Associates, LP
Gary D. Brown
Graham Brown
John and Nicole Buono
Michael R. and Pell Burns
The Caldrea Company
Franklin J. Carmel
Kurt Cellar
Richard L. and Carol B. Chadakoff
Kelly Chapman and Ronald M. Meyer
Lori A. Chozen
Cinema Art College Corp.
pedaids.org // 38
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
The Claire and Theodore Morse Foundation
David Clark
The Clinton Family Foundation
Communications Workers of America Local 7777
Communications Workers of America Local 9400
Kathleen Cravero-Kristoffersson
Creative Kids Care, Inc.
Melinda D. Crenshaw
Crystal Family Trust
Samuel D. and Linda K. Dannaway
De La Montanya Winery
Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation
Digital Infuzion, Inc.
Jack A. Drobnick
Barbara J. Easterling
Edison International
The Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation
Elsberg Family Foundation
Jeffrey and Anne Elton
Epic Systems Corporation
David R. Erbe
Robert S. and Jan Feldman
Ferrari Color
Jonathan and Samantha M. Firestone
Thomas M. Fontana
Frances & Benjamin Benenson Foundation
Fundamental Advisors
Greg C. Gaffney
Matthew Garrett
Susan Gilroy
George Lucas Family Foundation
Claire H. Gerhard and Charles J. Lyons
The Gershman Family Foundation
Audrey Gerson
Christopher and Nancy Gibbs
Julie B. Gibbs
Global Impact
Paul Goldenberg
Gordon H. and Karen M. Millner Family Foundation
Michael and Diane Gorfaine
Peryl Gottesman
Brian T. Grazer
Laura Guay and Mike W. O'Hare
Joy K. Hallinan
Catherine Hayden
Susan Irene Hickey
Sarah Hodges
Honeywell International Charity Matching
Doug Horner
Craig M. and Andrea R. Horowitz
Liora Hostyk
Hui Su Clarke
IBM Employee Services Center
Roy Jay
Noelani Jimenez
Darrell and Cynthia R. Johnson
Joseph & Helen Komarek Foundation
Robert Kahn
Arielle Katz
Bart and Roberta F. Kaufman
Richard J. and Deborah Kereluk
David A. and Paulette S. Kessler
Faramarz Khaladj
Bradley J. Kiley
Kings Care Foundation
Kingston Technology
Sara Kishner
Mary V. Kosters
Shelly Kohli
Scott R. Konrad
Sandra Krause and William Fitzgerald
Ronald Lam
Melanie A. Larkins
The Lauder Foundation
Barry and Diana Levinson
Michael H. and Wilma S. Leftin
Lexus Corporation
LF Sportswear, Inc.
Hal Liebes
Jennifer T. Li-Hochberg and Jason A. Hochberg
Longo Toyota-Scion-Lexus
Louise P. Hackett Foundation
Kennic Lui
Alvin Luk
John and Joan Malak
Marco Consulting Group, Inc.
Margo and Irwin Winkler Charitable Foundation
The Margot Sundheimer Foundation
MAXimum Research, Inc.
MAXIMUS Foundation
Catherine J. McBeath and Tom Gordon
Lynn M. McCloskey
John T. and Nancy McSweeney
Stephanie L. Marglin and James Edward Hughes
Rita Mediratta
Merck Partnership for Giving
Microsoft Matching Gifts Program
Lavonne L. Michaud and Gregory M. Bloom
George Mihlsten
The Milken Family Foundation
The Mill Foundation, Ltd.
Steven Moyle
Daniel G. and Susan M. Murphy
Nathan P. Jacobs Foundation
Ron Nersesian
Carole Wiseman Norden
Philip D. O'Brien
Eunice Omole
Gregg and Deborah Oppenheimer
Victoria Orso
Pacific Hospice
Sally G. Palmbaum
Stuart M. and Ginger Pape
Stephen E. and Nancy C. Paul
Laura Pennycuff and Sander A. Glick
Joseph R. and Amy M. Perella
Lisa R. Perry and Richard Cayne
Petchers Foundation
Samantha Porter
Precast Manufacturing Company LLC
pedaids.org // 39
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
Brandy Price
Princeton Area Community Foundation, Inc.
Claudia Pruett
R.G. Laha Foundation
Kevin Rehnberg
Marianne G. Reinisch
Ropes and Gray LLP
Ruth F. Cook Charitable Fund
Thomas L. Safran
Colin and Caron Sapire
Mary Ellen Powers and Daniel C. Sauls
Stanley E. Schlinger
Seema Seth
Harry B. and Miranda Shapiro
Jyoti Shrivastava
R.J. and Rumiko Simonds
Matthew and Rachel Marie Sirignano
Smile Brands Inc
Justin B. Smith
Drs. Karen Smith-McCune and Joseph McCune
Smoot Tewes Group
Daniela Spreafico
Sprinkles Cupcakes
Standard Bank of South Africa
Peter Steinberg
Daniel B. and Lori M. Steuer
Arden C. Strasser
Susan G. Stuart
Dennis Suskind
Timothy L. and Marcia H. Swanson
The Streisand Foundation
Rich Thigpen
Three Princesses and a P Trust
Tobey Foundation
Donald J. Tweedie
Erling Vaaler
Nancy Vitale
Martha T. Wallau and Alex Lee Wallau III
Christa Waltersdorf
David I. and Annette Mazeau Weil
Irving J. and Gail N. Weintraub
Whitman-Walker Health
Amelia Williamson
Caren R. Wishner
World Bank Community Connections Fund
Walter and Bobbi Zifkin
FUNDRAISING PARTNERS
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Alpha Mu, University of Maryland
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Alpha Xi, University of Connecticut
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Beta Eta, University of California San Diego
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Beta Theta, Virginia Commonwealth University
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Beta Zeta, University of Central Florida
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Epsilon, Tulane University
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Epsilon Epsilon Chapter
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Epsilon Phi, University of Iowa
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Epsilon Theta, American University
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Kappa, Cornell University
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Mu, University of Illinois
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Phi Chi, University of Delaware
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Phi Mu, Binghamton University
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Phi Omega, Northeastern University
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Psi, Washington University
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
Sigma, University of Wisconsin
Alpha Epsilon Phi--
American University Dance Marathon
Baldwin Wallace University Dance Marathon
Boston University Dance Marathon
College of the Holy Cross Dance Marathon
Columbia University Dance Marathon
Hatboro-Horsham School District
Lionsgate Entertainment
Pediatric AIDS Coalition
at University of California Los Angeles
University of California Berkeley Dance Marathon
--
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
The Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation has a 25-year track record of wisely
investing donor resources, from individuals, foundations, corporations, and governments.
With a stellar report card from nonprofit oversight agencies including Charity Navigator, the
American Institute of Philanthropy, and the Better Business Bureau, we take accountability
and stewardship seriously, making funding EGPAF a smart investment.
--
pedaids.org // 41
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
An AIDS-free generation is within our grasp. We aren't only
fighting AIDS, we're changing the way the world fights AIDS.
In 2013, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation spent more than
$122 million on our lifesaving programs around the world.
This year, 88 cents of every dollar went directly to HIV prevention, care, and
treatment programs, to reach as many children as possible.
EGPAF's affiliate organizations in Cote d'Ivoire, Mozambique, and Tanzania
have helped to increase the resources dedicated to HIV prevention, care, and
treatment programs in countries with high infection rates. Although not included
in EGPAF's audited financial statements, these three organizations--Fondation
Ariel Glaser Pour la Lutte Contre le SIDA Pediatrique (Cote d'Ivoire), Fundacao
Ariel Glaser Contra o SIDA Pediatrico (Mozambique), and the Ariel Glaser Pediatric
AIDS Healthcare Initiative (Tanzania)--together spent approximately $19.5 million
in 2013 on lifesaving programs.
Since its inception, EGPAF has been dedicated to raising funds to prevent
new pediatric AIDS infections, bringing hope to children and families living
with HIV and AIDS. These revenues represent the contributions of individuals,
corporations, foundations, and international organizations--as well as ongoing
support from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) through the U.S. President's
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).
EGPAF's 2013 financial statements were prepared in accordance with the United
States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The complete
audited financial statements for EGPAF may be viewed on our website,
www.pedaids.org.
Charles Lyons, EGPAF president and chief executive officer
pedaids.org // 42
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
Assets
Cash and Cash Equivalents $11,713,321
Contributions and Other Receivables 7,615,025
Other Assets 3,186,231
Total Assets $22,514,577
Liabilities and Net Assets
Total Liabilities $15,042,694
Net Assets-Unrestricted 5,783,305
Net Assets-Temporarily Restricted 1,608,036
Net Assets-Permanently Restricted 80,542
Total Ending Net Assets $7,471,883
Total Liabilities and Net Assets $ 22,514,577
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
Public Support and Revenue
Grants (U.S. government and non-U.S. government) $115,370,534
Contributions 3,994,978
Other income 912,905
Total Public Support and Revenue $120,278,417
Expenses
Program Services
Program Implementation $102,912,315
Research $2,077,817
Communications $2,306,842
Public Policy $823,608
Program Services Subtotal $108,120,582
Management, General, and Administrative $10,736,967
New Business Development $1,607,953
Fundraising $1,886,190
Total Expenses $122,351,692
Changes in Net Assets $(2,073,275)
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY
AS OF DEC. 31, 2013
Contributions 3%
U.S. Government Subawards 6%
Non-U.S. Government 16%
USAID 23%
CDC 52%
Program Services 88%
Management, General,
and Administrative 9%
Fundraising 2%
New Business Development 1%
2013 EXPENSES BY ACTIVITY
2013 REVENUE BY DONOR TYPE
pedaids.org // 43
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation // 2013 Annual Report
Willow Bay
Co-Chair
Freelance Reporter and Author
Los Angeles, Calif.
Russ Hagey
Co-Chair
Chief Talent Officer & Partner
Bain & Company
San Francisco, Calif.
Annie Hill
Secretary
Secretary/Treasurer
Communications Workers of America
Washington, D.C.
Omar Abdi
Comptroller
UNICEF
New York, N.Y.
Kathleen Cravero-Kristoffersson
President
Oak Foundation
Geneva, Switzerland
Sen. Christopher Dodd
Former U.S. Senator
Washington, D.C.
Jeff Elton, Ph.D.*
Managing Director
Accenture
Concord, Mass.
Jennifer Fox**
Managing Director
Deutsche Bank
New York, N.Y.
Paul Johnson
Chief Executive Officer
kglobal
Washington, D.C.
Paula Kerger
President and Chief Executive Officer
Public Broadcasting Service (PBS)
Washington, D.C.
Charles Lyons
President and Chief Executive Officer
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Washington, D.C.
Joseph (Mike) McCune
Professor of Medicine
Chief, Division of Experimental Medicine
University of California, San Francisco
San Francisco, Calif.
Stuart Pape
Member
Managing Partner
Patton Boggs, LLP
Washington, D.C.
George W. Wellde Jr.
Vice Chairman,
Securities Division (Retired)
Goldman Sachs & Company
New York, N.Y.
Susie Zeegen
Co-Founder
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric
AIDS Foundation
Los Angeles, Calif.
Paul Glaser
Honorary Chairman
Actor/Director/Producer
Santa Monica, Calif.
* Board term ended June 2013
** Board term ended November 2013
Charles Lyons
President & Chief Executive Officer
Brad Kiley
Chief Operating Officer
Anja Giphart, M.D., M.P.H.
Vice President,
Program Implementation
Laura Guay, M.D.
Vice President, Research
Nicholas Hellmann, M.D.
Executive Vice President,
Medical & Scientific Affairs
Doug Horner
Vice President,
Awards, Compliance
& International Operations
Trish Devine Karlin
Vice President,
Global Business Planning
Richard Marlink, M.D.
Senior Advisor,
Medical & Scientific Affairs
Philip O'Brien
Executive Vice President, Communications, Advocacy & Development
RJ Simonds, M.D.
Vice President,
Program Innovation & Policy
Tami Ward-Dahl, SPHR/GPHR
Vice President,
Human Resources & Administration
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM
--
1140 Connecticut Avenue NW, Suite 200
Washington, DC 20036
pedaids.org
202-296-9165 // info@pedaids.org
facebook.com/EGPAF // @EGPAF
--
