QUALITY. INDEPENDENCE. IMPACT.
1775 Massachusetts Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
www.brookings.edu
Annual Report 2014
BROOKINGS
1
Brookings Photo by Paul Morigi
Five Programs,
One Brookings
The challenges facing the world today—from
transnational terrorism to sustainable economic
growth to energy and climate change—are complex
and interconnected. Solving them demands a
multidimensional approach that employs a range
of disciplines and addresses both root causes and
long-term effects. The breadth of expertise and
collaborative atmosphere at Brookings enable just
this approach. Each of Brookings’s five research
programs—Economic ­Studies, Foreign Policy, Global
Economy and Development, Governance Studies,
and the Metropolitan Policy Program—could be its
own think tank. But if they operated in isolation,
important synergies would be lost. The multifaceted
solutions to today’s biggest problems don’t come out
of single-issue silos. They come out of one Brookings.
2
President’s Message
Co-Chairs’ Message
rom our founding 98 years ago, Brookings’s mission has included engaging fellow
citizens in our scholars’ work. We don’t just produce and disseminate research and
recommendations—we find ways to test and improve them through dialogue and debate.
Hence the integral importance of our Communications Department, our public spaces like
the Falk Auditorium, our prominence in the media, and our collaboration with other think
tanks, universities, civic organizations, governing bodies at all levels, international agencies,
and the private sector.
In recent years, new technologies have enhanced our ability to deepen, broaden, and
accelerate outreach and feedback. As a result, our constituencies are expanding geographically and
demographically. Two examples: social media enables us to share with the public our data on the
makeup of Congress and the dynamics of the electoral process; our videoconferencing capacity allows
students and faculty in Istanbul—fellow citizens of the world—to interact with our annual Sabanci
Lecturer in Falk.
In October 2013, during the public launch of our Second Century Campaign, we formalized
this commitment to facilitating public engagement in the life of Brookings. We call it the Jefferson
Imperative. Why? Because America’s third president believed that a well-informed, educated, and
empowered citizenry is crucial to a healthy, efficacious democracy.
The United States needs help in that regard now and in the decades ahead. Polarization of the
body politic and dysfunction of the federal government are at alarming levels. Much of the media
landscape is a balkanized, fact-free zone. Versions of this lamentable phenomenon are evident around
the world. We believe that Brookings, with its dedication to nonpartisanship, empirical research, and
civil discourse, can help revive Jefferson’s wisdom, nationally and globally.
To deepen our research further, we have launched partnerships with some of the world’s leading
public-spirited universities, carrying forward yet another of Jefferson’s many passions.
We’ve invested in new strategies and technologies to send and receive information in real time
and in multiple ways. We’ve renovated Falk to increase its audience capacity, both physically and
virtually through audio-visual facilities. Literally every month our Communications and Information
Technology colleagues introduce innovations on our website, brookings.edu—a domain name that we
like to think is a reminder of our obligation to educate the public.
In this era of crowdsourcing and user-generated content, we have greater access than ever before
to ideas that come from a public that we’re trying to inform and engage. Twitter, Facebook, online
video discussions, blog comments, and email provide a high-tech analogue to the Q&A sessions that
are a standard feature at our public events at 1775 Massachusetts Avenue, which, I can assure you,
will not just survive but prosper in the digital age.
Important as social media is, it doesn’t tell the full story, not least because postings tend to be
instantaneous and brief. That’s one reason why the long-form journalistic and thought pieces that we
began producing in 2013 under the rubric of the Brookings Essay have become a brand-enhancing­
staple of our presence on the Internet. Readers—including many who had not been ­
visitors to our
site—have taken notice. We hope you will too.
We’ll keep you abreast of progress as we make further strides in the Jefferson Imperative. We
hope you agree that our centenary in 2016 is an occasion to reaffirm and update not just the found-
ing values and principles of our own Institution, but those of our nation as well.
3
Strobe Talbott
President
John L. Thornton
Co-Chair of the Board
hen Robert Brookings decided,
nearly a hundred years ago, to
create and fund a nonprofit
organization to study how the
federal government might
operate more effectively,
he could not have possibly imagined what
would result. But the institution he founded
is now, a century later, widely recognized
as the global leader in (and role model for)
nonprofit organizations—popularly known as
“think tanks”—seeking to develop nonpartisan
solutions for the full range of issues facing
governments at all levels.
The success of this enterprise is a testament not just to Robert Brookings’s vision, but also to the
dedicated work over many decades of extraordinary scholars and equally committed supporters and
donors.
While governments in the United States and abroad still face many seemingly intractable
problems, there is no doubt that policymakers, from mayors and governors to legislators and
presidents, have benefited from the research and ideas generated by Brookings scholars. And this is
equally true whether the challenge before us is a breaking crisis that demands a rapid response or a
long-term challenge that requires fundamental re-thinking and comprehensive solutions.
Our goal is to ensure that this important work can continue—and be enhanced—in Brookings’s
next hundred years.
Toward that end, Brookings has launched the Second Century Campaign—a $600 million
comprehensive campaign designed to place Brookings’s financial resources at a level that ensures
the Institution’s preeminence in the think tank world. However, that is not merely out of a desire
for preeminence for its own sake, admirable as that might be, but rather out of a conviction that
our continued leadership can indeed produce the type of scholarship and research—and practical
solutions—that can help governments achieve their complicated mission much better.
For this overarching reason, we very much appreciate the support of so many individuals,
corporations, and philanthropies from around the world in helping to get the Second Century
Campaign off to a strong start, while also continuing their support of Brookings’s current day-to-day
needs. We are in their debt, and look forward to thanking them personally when the occasion arises.
We also want to thank—and commend—Brookings’s administrators and scholars for their
achievements over the past year and their continued efforts to provide useful research and innovative
policy solutions to the array of challenging issues now facing policymakers around the world.
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
photo
by
Katherine
Lambert
David M. Rubenstein
Co-Chair of the Board
W F
4 5
Brookings Impact
Senior Fellow Robert
Kagan and noted historian
Margaret MacMillan
(right), author of the
Brookings Essay “The
Rhyme of History:
Lessons of the Great War,”
compare current tensions
around the globe to the
period preceding the start
of World War I in 1914
President
Clinton
Launches
Premier Forum
President Bill Clinton
delivers the inaugural
Robert S. Brookings
President’s Lecture
Bringing Long-Form
Writing into the Digital Age
In the spirit of Brookings’s commitment to
high-quality, independent research, in 2013 the
Institution launched the Brookings Essay as
a multi-platform, long-form product designed
to engage audiences in open dialogue and
debate. Through eye-catching graphics, inspired
prose, interactive maps, embedded videos, and
timelines, Brookings Essays immerse readers in
critical issues with in-depth analysis of events
and their consequences, and the policy options
for responding to them. By stimulating national
and international conversations on key topics,
the Brookings Essay embodies the goals of the
Jefferson Imperative: engaging informed citizens in
the governance of their nations and world.
The inaugural essay, “A Deadly Triangle” by
William Dalrymple, opens with grenade blasts
and a Kabul guesthouse bombed to rubble as
an introduction to the complex interactions
between India, Pakistan, and Afghanistan and the
internal politics that inform the region’s strategic
relationships.
With a haunting description of a Corsican
war memorial, Margaret MacMillan’s “The Rhyme
of History” launches a journey through time to
investigate the “what ifs” and “whys” of the First
World War.
Other Brookings Essays have examined gun
control, the role of sub-national governments
in India and China, the roots of the European
Union, and NSA surveillance, among other topics.
Nearly 300,000 visitors have viewed the first seven
Brookings Essays, making them among the most
popular content on the Brookings website.
“If you look everywhere
in the world where there’s
a genuine commitment to
shared decisionmaking, good
things are happening.”
—Bill Clinton, 42nd President,
United States of America
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
t a time when the lines between research
organizations and advocacy groups are
becoming increasingly blurred, media
outlets—from major newspapers to
independent bloggers—are asking questions
about how research is financed. With
political polarization remaining a great stumbling block
to policy breakthroughs and partisan goals too often
trumping sound policy, people want—and deserve—to
know where their statistics and analyses are coming from.
In short, independence has never been more important
and transparency never more critical to ensuring impact.
Brookings takes these questions very seriously. Since its
founding, Brookings has believed that the value of its
scholarship—to all sides of any debate—is in the absolute
commitment to empirical research and thoughtful,
well-considered conclusions. Brookings scholars bring
a range of perspectives and there is no “Brookings
position” on issues. Instead, working in an atmosphere
of intellectual freedom and the highest standards of
academic rigor, Brookings experts conduct policy analysis
and make recommendations based on the facts, without a
predetermined outcome.
Brookings is funded by a diverse balance of
corporations, individuals, foundations, and governments
representing a wide range of views. This diversity makes
Brookings beholden to only one master: the facts. One
reason that endowments and unrestricted funding are
so important to the Brookings mission is that they give
scholars the ability to pursue independent research and
follow the findings—wherever they may lead.
As contentious debate and partisan gridlock continue
to hamper progress on the urgent issues of our time,
Brookings’s independence is, and always will be, a rare
and valuable asset.
I
n 2014, the Institution launched the
Robert S. Brookings President’s Lecture
to provide a highly visible annual platform
for statesmen and business leaders from
around the world to deliver major, news-
making policy speeches.
The inaugural speaker was Bill Clinton,
founder of the Clinton Foundation and 42nd
President of the United States. He took the
stage in Falk Auditorium for a conversation
with Brookings President Strobe Talbott that
covered an enormous range of issues, from
climate change and energy to the global
economy and inequality. Staying true to
Brookings’s commitment to engaged citizenry,
the first event was webcast live and the public
was invited to submit questions for President
Clinton via Twitter using #ClintonatBrookings,
and many participants live-tweeted their own
commentary during the event.
For years to come, this exclusive forum
will showcase leaders from the highest levels,
giving attendees the opportunity to hear
firsthand perspectives from the individuals
shaping our world.
The Power and
Promise of
Independence
A
Photo by Paul Morigi
6 7
Economic Studies
W
Investigating Policy Options
to Meet Economic Challenges
ith a focus on revitalizing eco-
nomic growth, improving the
labor market, and advancing
economic opportunity, the Eco-
nomic Studies program analyzes
current and emerging economic
policy issues facing the United States and the
world. Economic Studies experts provide rig-
orous, nonpartisan, independent analyses to
improve the quality and efficacy of economic
policies.
Shaping Recovery
Economic Studies experts assess and
recommend policies to improve the tepid
economic recovery and the fragile labor market.
Scholars looked at the causes of the financial
crisis and Great ­
Recession to help prevent their
recurrence through events like “The State of
the U.S. ­
Financial System Five Years after the
­
Crisis,” held simultaneously at Brookings and
Stanford University, and “Recovery Road? An
Assessment of the Auto Bailout and the State of
U.S. Manufacturing,” which featured Chrysler
head Sergio ­
Marchionne, Brookings Trustee
­
Steven Rattner, and Lawrence ­
Summers of
­
Harvard. Economic Studies also hosted Mel
Watt, new director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, who spoke on “The Future of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.”
This year, Brookings welcomed former
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke as a
distinguished fellow in residence and Louise
Sheiner and David Wessel as senior fellows,
adding new expertise to an already deep bench
of scholars with rigorous academic credentials
and high-level policy experience.
Examining the Systems
that Promote Opportunity
The Center on Children and Families, led by
Senior Fellows Isabel Sawhill and Ron Haskins,
the Cabot Family Chair, convened the first
annual Social Mobility Summit to examine the
policy challenges posed by stagnant rates of
social mobility. Organized by Policy Director
Richard Reeves and featuring keynote remarks
from ­
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and
House Budget Committee Chair Paul Ryan
(R-WI), the ­
Summit focused on how events at
critical life stages affect outcomes. Decisions
on child-bearing are key determinants of
success, and Sawhill’s new book, Generation
Unbound, will offer insights into how family
Distinguished Fellow in Residence Ben Bernanke (left)
and Senior Fellow David Wessel, Director of the Hutchins
Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy (center), greet
Stanley Fischer, Vice Chair of the Federal Reserve, prior
to an event on central banking after the Great Recession
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Vice President and Director of Economic Studies Ted Gayer, the Joseph A. Pechman Senior Fellow
(right), discusses the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with Director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency Mel Watt
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Examining
the Fiscal
Impacts of
Retirement
Trends
F
or the past
two decades
Americans
over age
60 have increasingly
delayed their exit
from the workforce.
This reversal of a
century-old trend
may help reduce
the soaring costs of
entitlement programs
such as Social Secu-
rity and Medicare. In
Closing the Deficit,
Senior Fellows Henry
Aaron, the Bruce and
Virginia MacLaury
Chair, and Gary Burt-
less, the John C. and
Nancy D. Whitehead
Chair, explore the
possible impact of
this development on
the federal deficit.
As the nation faces
a prolonged jobs gap
and long-run fiscal
challenges, Closing
the Deficit provides
an important look
at a crucial segment
of the employment
market and presents
a potential path for
future recovery.
photo by Monty Rakusen/Getty Images
“Don (Kohn) is
always so wise
and balanced
that it is a
delight to read
anything that
he writes. And
I have this
overwhelming
sense that I
should just say
I agree with
him.”
—Christina Romer,
former Chairman,
President’s Council of
Economic Advisors
9
Economic Studies
Concentrated Focus on
Fiscal and Monetary Policy
H
ow effective are monetary policies, such as sustained low interest
rates and quantitative easing, at advancing the economic recovery
and what risks might they pose for financial markets? How
can fiscal policies such as tax reform better promote economic
growth and help heal the labor market, while also achieving long-
term sustainability? To help answer these important questions, Glenn Hutchins,
chairman of the Second Century Campaign and vice chair of the Brookings Board,
made a $10 million grant through the Hutchins Family Foundation to establish the
Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy.
With David Wessel, 30-year veteran of the Wall Street Journal, as director
and an advisory council chaired by Lawrence Summers and N. Gregory Mankiw of
Harvard, Hutchins Center scholars strengthen fiscal
and monetary policy by generating new thinking
and constructive criticism, and providing a forum for
reasoned debate.
At the Hutchins Center launch, Brookings
released papers by current and former central
bankers on the zero lower bound, international
banking reform, and risks to the Fed’s independence.
Ben Bernanke delivered the keynote address, just
days before completing his term at the Fed and
joining Brookings.
Hutchins Center experts also look at the global
ramifications of policies. Wessel led a panel featuring
Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan
that discussed the global impact of the Federal
Reserve scaling back long-term bond purchases. As
China deregulates and liberalizes its financial sector,
Donald Kohn, the Robert S. Kerr Senior Fellow, shared lessons from U.S. and U.K.
macroprudential regulation at Tsinghua University in Beijing.
structure impacts child well-being and social
mobility.
The Center on Children and Families also
launched the Social Mobility Memos blog, which
explores the challenges of increasing social mobil-
ity and opportunity and provides recommendations
on ways that education, family, and work can pro-
mote greater economic success.
Sergio Marchionne,
Chairman and CEO
of Chrysler, gives his
assessment of the
government’s 2009
bailout of the automotive
industry
PHOTO
BY
SHARON
FARMER
Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Senior Fellow Ron Haskins, the Cabot Family
Chair and Co-Director of the Center on Children and Families (right), participate in
the Social Mobility Summit
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
SHARON
FARMER
>Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/economics
and follow @BrookingsEcon
New Ways to Make Data
Accessible
D
ata visualization can make complex
information understandable to a wider
audience. Economic Studies employs
innovative approaches to making
its research more accessible and compelling.
For example, Hamilton Project Director Melissa
Kearney made a video explaining the conclusions
from her research on how popular television can
influence teen pregnancy. A series of interactive
maps showing county-by-county breakdowns of
property taxes, income taxes, itemized deductions,
and earned income credits was the most-viewed
content on the Brookings website this year.
Graphs examining the persistent problem
of long-term unemployment appeared in several
media outlets, drawing more attention and readers
to the Brookings Papers on Economic Activity,
the program’s flagship academic conference and
publication.
In “Ten Questions You Were Afraid to Ask
about Obamacare,” Fellows (and practicing
physicians) Kavita Patel and Darshak Sanghavi
in the Engelberg Center for Health Care Reform
discussed the basics and complexities of the
Affordable Care Act in plain language.
Assessing the
Government’s Role
W
ith travelers facing rising
costs, flight delays, and traffic
congestion, and with the advent
of new technologies such as
driverless cars, Searle Freedom Trust Senior
Fellow Clifford Winston examines the role of
government in aiding or impeding transportation
efficiency. His recent work includes an exploration
of airport privatization, which found that “the
potential annual benefits from private airport
competition nationwide could amount to billions
of dollars,” improve travelers’ welfare, and
increase profitability of airlines and airports.
Over the past year, Winston, a microeconomist
who specializes in the analysis of industrial
organization, regulation, and transportation, has
examined the application of market practices
to infrastructure projects, public versus private
sector effectiveness for strengthening the U.S.
transportation system, and the government’s
ability to implement large projects like the
Affordable Care Act website. By supporting
experts like Winston, the Searle Freedom
Trust helps Brookings bring a wide range of
perspectives to its scholarship.
Charles Evans, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (second from right), contributes to a panel discussion on global monetary policy
alongside (left to right) Vitor Constancio, Vice President of the European Central Bank; Senior Fellow Eswar Prasad, the New Century Chair in
International Trade and Economics; Alexandre Tombini, Governor of the Central Bank of Brazil; and Raghuram Rajan, Governor of the Reserve Bank
of India
Director of the Engelberg
Center for Health Care
Reform Alice Rivlin, the
Leonard D. Schaeffer Chair
in Health Policy Studies and
the founding director of the
Congressional Budget Office
(center), stands with current
CBO Director Douglas
Elmendorf (left) and former
Director Robert Reischauer
Searle Freedom Trust Senior Fellow Clifford Winston
“Brookings is stockpiling some
of the best economic brainpower
in America.”
—Jon Hilsenrath, Chief Economics Correspondent,
Wall Street Journal
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Vice Chair of the Board
Glenn Hutchins speaks at
the launch of the Hutchins
Center on Fiscal and
Monetary Policy
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
10 11
Foreign Policy
hether addressing overarching
­
geopolitical trends or the erupt-
ing crisis of the moment, Foreign
Policy scholars provide objective
analysis, important context, and
practical policy recommendations
to inform public debate and help policymakers
respond. With more than 40 full-time scholars,
Foreign Policy’s research agenda covers the world’s
critical regions and key issues such as energy
security, non-proliferation, and humanitarian
affairs. Bolstered by the work of overseas research
centers in China, Qatar, and India, Foreign Policy
is uniquely configured to address breaking devel-
opments and the interconnected challenges that
affect the global order.
Defining New Roles for a New Reality
Foreign Policy launched the Project on Interna-
tional Order and Strategy in February to explore
the global order and how critical countries are
shaping its evolution, for good or for ill. Scholars
like Senior Fellows Robert Kagan and Ted Piccone
and Fellow Jeremy Shapiro are drawing on their
State Department and White House experience to
examine implications for U.S. strategy and global
cooperation and provide policy recommendations.
W
Interpreting a Changing World
NATO Secretary-
General Anders Fogh
Rasmussen (left) and
Senior Fellow Fiona
Hill, Director of the
Center on the United
States and Europe,
confer ahead of an
event examining how
NATO is evolving
to address new
security challenges
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Photo
by
Ralph
Alswang
“Superpowers Don’t Get to Retire,” Kagan’s essay
on U.S. leadership in The New Republic, catalyzed
intense debate, including among President Obama
and his top advisors. In Still Ours to Lead: America,
Rising Powers, and the Tension between Rivalry and
Restraint, Project Director and Deputy Director
of Foreign Policy Bruce Jones, a former United
Nations senior advisor, wrote about the future of
international power through a U.S. lens.
Framing the Debate on Global Challenges
As negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program
approached a turning point, Brookings experts pro-
vided balanced insights into Tehran’s ambitions, its
complicated internal politics, and potential courses
of action. Senior Fellow Robert Einhorn, a former
special advisor to the Secretary of State, delivered
recommendations in Preventing a Nuclear-Armed
Iran. Senior Fellow Kenneth Pollack explored
worst-case scenarios in Unthinkable: Iran, the
Bomb, and American Strategy, which was recog-
nized among the New York Times’s 100 Notable
Books of 2013. Senior Fellow Suzanne Maloney’s
widely followed Iran@Brookings blog provided a
forum for discussion on questions involving Iran.
Brookings scholars were hard at work on
other critical questions on the Middle East, with
Dealing with
the Rising
Asian-Pacific
Giant
C
hina’s rise
poses a
central
strategic
challenge for the
United States, partic-
ularly as the emerg-
ing power asserts a
larger international
role and builds a
modern military on
top of its established
economic strengths.
There is no consensus
among policymak-
ers and pundits over
whether the bilateral
relationship will
descend into danger-
ous confrontation or
reach friendly col-
laboration. Senior Fel-
low Michael O’Hanlon,
the Sydney Stein, Jr.
Chair in International
Security, and former
Deputy Secretary of
State James Stein-
berg explore this
challenge in their
book, Strategic Reas-
surance and Resolve:
U.S.-China Relations
in the 21st Century,
which makes focused
recommendations
for establishing sus-
tainable cooperation
based on deliberate
strategies to address
the key security
dynamics between
them.
“I think
the Saban
Forum…
has done
outstanding
work, and it
provides us a
mechanism
where we don’t
just scratch the
surface of these
issues.”
—Barack Obama,
President, United States
of America
photo by Pacific Press/Getty Images
President of the United
States Barack Obama
speaks at the 10th annual
Saban Forum
12 13
Foreign Policy
Photo
by
Paul
MorIgI
experts examining prospects for democracy in
Egypt, instability and crisis in Iraq, and broader
relations between the U.S. and the Islamic world.
Senior Fellow Elizabeth Ferris, co-director of the
Project on Internal Displacement, presented rec-
ommendations for addressing the refugee crisis in
Syria, while TÜS˙
IAD Senior Fellow Kemal Kiri¸
sci,
director of the Turkey Project in the Center on the
United States and Europe, discussed refugee inte-
gration in Turkey. Vice President of Foreign Policy
Martin Indyk took a leave of absence to serve as
U.S. special envoy for Israeli-Palestinian negotia-
tions, returning to Brookings on July 1, 2014.
Strengthening Scholarship on Asia
Foreign Policy scholars also examined the implica-
tions of rebalancing American policy toward Asia,
which comes amid territorial conflicts in the East
and South China Seas, Trans-Pacific Partnership
trade negotiations, evolving energy policies, and
shifting centers of power. Center for East Asia
Policy Studies Director Richard Bush, the Michael
H. Armacost Chair and the Chen-Fu and Cecilia
Yen Koo Chair in Taiwan Studies, emphasized the
importance of global connections: “Getting out
of Afghanistan, staying out of Libya, Syria, and
Ukraine, and working hard to get a nuclear deal
with Iran—all strengthen the United States to play
well in the main area of geopolitics: East Asia.”
China is central to any conversation about
Asia, and Foreign Policy enhanced its capacity on
the country with the addition of two new center
directors. Senior Fellow Cheng Li brings his
knowledge of political transformation, generational
Rapid Response to Ukraine-Russia Crisis
A
s the ukraine crisis evolved into a ukraine-russia dispute with major
implications for relations between the West and russia, Foreign Policy
scholars provided insightful analysis and policy recommendations.
senior Fellow Clifford gaddy and Fiona hill, the stephen and barbara
Friedman senior Fellow and director of the Center on the united states and
europe, drew on their book Mr. Putin: Operative in the Kremlin to explain the cal-
culations behind the russian leader’s actions. senior Fellow steven Pifer, former
u.s. ambassador to ukraine, complemented their work with his own analysis and
recommendations for u.s. and european policy.
as the crisis deepened, Foreign Policy took a leadership role in explaining
developments and policy options through op-eds in the Washington Post, New
York Times, and Financial Times, as well as testimony on Capitol hill and dozens
of briefings with senior policymakers, senators, members of Congress, and the
media. During the crisis, Foreign Policy hosted speeches by international leaders,
including german Foreign Minister Frank-Walter steinmeier in February and nato
secretary-general anders Fogh rasmussen in March.
>Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/foreignpolicy
or follow @BrookingsFP
A Front-Row Seat
to Policy in Progress
L
ongtime brookings trustee alan batkin
and his wife, Jane, made a new $1 million
commitment to establish the alan and
Jane batkin International leaders Forum
series, which enables brookings to host foreign
leaders for major policy addresses. the dedicated
resources provided by this twenty-year term
endowment will allow Foreign Policy to leverage
brookings’s unparalleled convening power to
provide a platform for visiting dignitaries to speak
publicly about critical current issues with a high-
level Washington audience.
Brookings India Founders Circle
the Founders Circle is a group of business and civic
leaders from India and the united states whose
support and advice helped launch brookings India
in new Delhi in 2013.
Antoine van Agtmael, garten rothkopf
Nita Ambani and Mukesh Ambani, reliance
Industries ltd.
Rahul Bajaj, bajaj auto ltd.
Shyam S. Bhartia and Hari S. Bhartia, Jubilant
bhartia group
Kumar Mangalam Birla, aditya birla group
Gaurav Dalmia, Dalmia group
Steven A. Denning, general atlantic llC
Swati Desai and Nishith Desai, nishith Desai
associates
Adi Godrej, godrej group
Kris Gopalakrishnan, Infosys
Baba Kalyani, bharat Forge
Onkar S. Kanwar and Neeraj R. S. Kanwar, apollo
tyres
Rana Kapoor, yes bank
Sunil Kaushal, standard Chartered bank
Charles R. Kaye, Warburg Pincus
Sid Khanna, IeP Fund advisors Private limited
Shiv Vikram Khemka and Uday Khemka, sun group
Geetanjali Kirloskar and Vikram Kirloskar, Kirloskar
systems ltd.
Rajiv B. Lall, IDFC
Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, biocon
Rajan Bharti Mittal and Rakesh Bharti Mittal,
bharti enterprises
Sanjay Nayar
Vineet Nayar and Varun Nayar, sampark
Ajay Piramal, Piramal enterprises ltd.
Dattaraj V. Salgaocar, V. M. salgaocar group
Shardul Shroff and Pallavi Shroff, amarchand &
Mangaldas & suresh a. shroff &Co.
Malvinder Mohan Singh, Fortis healthcare limited
Harsh Pati Singhania, J.K. organisation
Krishen Sud, sivik global healthcare, Inc.
Tata Group
Adil Zainulbhai and Ashraf Dahod, Dawat-e-hadiyah
(america), a Corporation sole
Arshad Zakaria, new Vernon Capital
Chilean President Michelle
Bachelet speaks during
an Alan and Jane Batkin
International Leaders
Forum about her work to
strengthen democracy
and eliminate inequality in
her country
Photo
by
Paul
MorIgI
Senior Fellow Katharine
H.S. Moon, the SK-Korea
Foundation Chair in
Korea Studies (right),
speaks with Ho-Young
Ahn, Ambassador of the
Republic of Korea to the
United States, about the
role democratization and
globalization are playing
in transforming U.S.-Korea
relations
Photo
by
Paul
MorIgI
“I am
confident that
as China and
the United
States build
this new
model of
major-country
relationship,
the Brookings
Institution will
continue to
play a positive
role and make
an important
contribution.”
—Wang Yi, Foreign
Minister, People’s
Republic of China
Trustee Alan R. Batkin
Martin Indyk, then-U.S.
Special Envoy for Israeli-
Palestinian Negotiations
(left), discusses the
Middle East peace
negotiations with U.S.
Secretary of State
John Kerry in Paris in
September 2013
change, and technological development to his
role as director of the John L. Thornton China
Center. Senior Fellow Qi Ye now heads the
Brookings-Tsinghua Center for Public Policy in
Beijing, where he delivers in-depth insights into
how China is balancing its economic growth and
environmental challenges.
The appointment of Katharine H.S. Moon
as the inaugural SK-Korea Foundation Chair in
Korea Studies further enriched Foreign Policy’s
Asia expertise. Under the direction of Fellow Tanvi
Madan, the India Project will collaborate closely
with Brookings India, the Institution’s new center
in New Delhi, to track developments in Asia’s
second emerging giant.
globalization are playing
in transforming U.S.-Korea
relations
Photo
by
Paul
MorIgI
Photo
by
glen
Johnson
14 15
Global Economy and Development
U
nder the leadership of Vice President
and Director Kemal Dervi¸
s, the Edward
M. Bernstein Scholar, the Global
Economy and Development program
continued to respond to the changing
economic landscape around the world,
offering analysis, debate, and recommendations on
the issues that will determine our common future.
Trends in the Global Economy
Despite a predominantly favorable global narra-
tive for developing countries’ economic prospects,
recent data shows weaknesses in many emerg-
ing economies. This has revived the debate on
whether the “convergence” of average incomes is
a long-term structural trend or just a cycle. Global
scholars have been making the case that conver-
gence as a “secular” trend is here to stay thanks
to globalization and the spread of technology. This
influential work includes Kemal Dervi¸
s’s regular
Project Syndicate column and Senior Fellow and
New Century Chair in International Trade and
Economics Eswar Prasad’s Tracking Indices in the
Global Economic Recovery (TIGER), a joint effort
with the Financial Times.
Research by Global scholars has also high-
lighted differences among countries and regions,
Shaping the Global Economic Agenda
Liu Yandong, Vice Premier of the People’s Republic of China, and Hillary Rodham Clinton, former U.S.
Secretary of State (right), discuss the importance of early childhood development programs and their
potential for accelerating long-term economic growth and productivity
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Then-Prime Minister of Italy Enrico Letta talks with Vice President
and Director of Global Economy and Development Kemal Dervi¸
s and
Nonresident Senior Fellow Carlo Bastasin (right to left) ahead of an
address in which he outlined his views on how Italy and Europe should
move forward following the economic crisis
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
including the specific difficulties in sustain-
ing long-term growth in regions such as Latin
­
America. The Brookings Global-CERES Economic
and Social Policy in Latin America (ESPLA) Ini-
tiative’s report Latin America Macroeconomic Out-
look in the Global Context: Are the Golden Years
for Latin America Over? was discussed and cited
during the 2013 International Monetary Fund/
World Bank Annual Meetings. In January 2014,
the Africa Growth Initiative launched its annual
Foresight Africa report at a full-house event.
Examining Prospects for Europe’s Future
The May 2014 European Parliament elections
came amid uncertainty over the European Union’s
political direction and challenges to its monetary
union. Brookings experts engaged in research
and dialogue on the region’s long-term growth
prospects and a renewed vision for the European
Union in the 2020s. Global released Europe’s
Crisis, Europe’s Future, which examined the crisis
from its onset to draw policy lessons for domestic
and international finance and social policies. Sup-
ported by a grant from the Stavros Niarchos Foun-
dation and launched in Athens, Greece: From Exit
to Recovery? discussed the country’s experience in
the financial crisis, from its adoption of the euro
The Paradox
of U.S. Dollar
Dominance
E
ven with
rising debt,
political
dysfunction,
and years of uncon-
ventional monetary
policies, the U.S.
dollar remains the
world’s most trusted
reserve currency.
Senior Fellow Eswar
Prasad, the New Cen-
tury Chair in Inter-
national Trade and
Economics, examined
this paradox in The
Dollar Trap: How the
U.S. Dollar Tightened
Its Grip on Global
Finance. “The U.S.
is not eager to keep
its currency strong.
This inevitably leads
countries to focus
on exports to boost
growth,” he explained
in the Wall Street
Journal—among the
many media outlets,
including the Harvard
Business Review and
the Financial Times,
that covered the
book.
“In such a
connected age,
where we are
all looking for
solutions, often
to problems
we are all
experiencing,
having people
who can bring
you together
like Brookings
is so important
to getting it
right.”
—Julia Gillard, former
Prime Minister, Australia
Princeton
University
Press
Photo by IMF Photo/Ryan Rayburn
16 17
Global Economy and Development
U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman discusses how U.S. trade
policy, including the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA),
must adapt to shifts in the global economic landscape
Photo
by
Sharon
Farmer
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Informing the U.S.-Africa Economic
Relationship
F
or years, U.S. engagement in Africa has emphasized poverty reduction,
foreign aid, and addressing catastrophes like the tragic spread of HIV/
AIDS. While important, these priorities have not kept pace with Africa’s
emergence as a premier site of innovation and entrepreneurship. The
Africa Growth Initiative continued to engage U.S. policymakers around the trade
and investment agenda, including Power Africa, Trade Africa, the Africa Growth
and Opportunity Act (AGOA), and the pending Electrify Africa Act.
Brookings convened thought leaders on these issues through its Africa
Policy Dialogue on the Hill, held in partnership with the Congressional African
Staff Association. Global scholars testified on the African Economic Commu-
nity before the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights,
and International Organizations. This work coalesced around the U.S.-Africa
Leaders Summit in August 2014, for which Brookings offered the White House
recommendations on the Summit’s structure, format, and agenda and convened
a high-level public forum that featured a dynamic group of business leaders,
entrepreneurs, and public figures.
>
Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/global
or follow @BrookingsGlobal
Support for Global Education
I
n June 2014, Foreign Minister of Norway
Børge Brende and Brookings President
Strobe Talbott signed a Memorandum of
Understanding for Norway’s intent to support
the Center for Universal Education with a gift of
$4 million over three years. This grant will sup-
port independent policy research and dialogue on
the global education agenda, how learning is mea-
sured, the improvement of education resources,
and reaching the most marginalized children and
youth around the world. Brookings is grateful for
Norway’s long-standing support of the Foreign
Policy program, as well as previous support for
work on international climate policy, and looks
forward to broadening its relationship to focus on
improving global education.
President of the African
Development Bank Donald
Kaberuka offers insight
on the importance of
finding new and efficient
ways to leverage private
capital in Africa, as
well as maximizing and
sharing revenues from
African countries’ natural
resources
Photo
by
Chris
Maddaloni
Carol Graham, the Leo Pasvolsky Senior Fellow (left),
explores the economics of happiness with Dan Harris of
ABC News at an event in New York’s Bryant Park
Photo
by
Angelito
Jusay
“It’s always
a thrill to be
with Brookings
and Brookings’s
experts, who
are always
shaping a
brighter future
for all of us.”
—Rajiv Shah,
Administrator, U.S.
Agency for International
Development (USAID)
Distinguished Fellow Julia Gillard, Senior Fellow
and Director of the Center for Universal Education
Rebecca Winthrop, President Strobe Talbott,
Norwegian Ambassador to the United States Kåre
Aas, and Norwegian Foreign Minister Børge Brende
(left to right)
Senior Fellow and
Deputy Director of
Global Economy and
Development Homi
Kharas (right) listens as
Rajiv Shah, Administrator
of the U.S. Agency
for International
Development, discusses
the role of the U.S.
government in the fight
against global poverty
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
to potential policy responses for recovery.
Global’s work and events have fed into the
economic debate on the eurozone and the broader
discussion on the future of European institutions.
Over the last year, Brookings hosted several senior
European leaders, including Enrico Letta, then-
prime minister of Italy; Benoit Coeuré, member
of the Executive Board of the European Central
Bank; Eleni Dendrinou-Louri, then-deputy gover-
nor of the Bank of Greece; and Reza Moghadam,
director of the European Department at the Inter-
national Monetary Fund.
Creating the Sustainable
Development Goals
With the Millennium Development Goals expiring
in 2015, the global community is working toward
consensus around a set of sustainable develop-
ment goals to succeed them. After Senior Fellow
and Deputy Director Homi Kharas played a promi-
nent role as lead author and executive secretary
for a United Nations high-level panel charting a
course for global development, he was named one
of Foreign Policy magazine’s leading global thinkers
of 2013.
Brookings experts contributed to this debate
through work on poverty trends, data, education,
and accountability, and work specific to Africa,
where many of the development challenges are
most acute. A number of Brookings’s recommenda-
tions—particularly around global education, scal-
ing up successful development interventions, and
U.S. development finance strategies—have been
actively debated at key forums like the annual
Brookings Blum Roundtable on Global Poverty.
Building Consensus on Global Education
As part of Global’s work on development, the
Center for Universal Education has partnered with
UNESCO’s Institute of Statistics to convene a
global task force to develop and build consensus
around new ways to globally measure what mat-
ters in education. This effort has included active
participation by ministers of education and other
actors in over 100 countries. Former Prime Minis-
ter of Australia Julia Gillard, now a distinguished
fellow at Brookings, is working closely with the
Center to identify ways to scale up and finance
quality learning opportunities and make education,
especially for girls, a global priority.
18 19
Governance Studies
F
timely Messengers of independent insight
rom implementation of the Affordable
Care Act to the implications of the NSA
leaks, Governance Studies scholars
helped leaders and citizens understand
complex policy issues in the United
States and around the world.
Advising through a Government Shutdown
On the eve of the 2013 government shutdown,
Brookings launched the Center for Effective Public
Management and its accompanying policy blog,
FixGov. Under the direction of Senior Fellow and
founding Director Elaine Kamarck, Center experts
provided insights on the impasse and possible
resolutions.
“This shutdown, if it comes to pass, will cost
billions of dollars,” Senior Fellow Thomas Mann,
the W. Averell Harriman Chair in American Gov-
ernance, told C-SPAN. Kamarck shared ideas for
fixing a broken Congress, while Senior Fellow Sarah
Binder interpreted unfolding events for the Wash-
ington Post’s Monkey Cage blog.
What effect will continuing discord on Capitol
Hill have on budget negotiations and the task of
governing? Two reports—“2013 American Values
Survey: Libertarianism in the 21st Century” and
“Faith in Equality: Economic Justice and the Future
of American Progressives”—dove deep into partisan
views, while FixGov delivered timely analysis on the
congressional primaries.
FixGov is the most viewed blog on the Brook-
ings website, with readers from inside and outside
Washington, and has been cited in major outlets
including Politico, Huffington Post, and CNN. By
using #FixGov on Twitter, the public can be part of
the conversation. FixGov includes resources such as
graphs on different dimensions of gridlock, a review
of the Tea Party’s GOP battles, and examinations
of issues from “Why the McCutcheon Decision is
Worse than it Looks” to what Affordable Care Act
enrollment trends mean for Democratic candidates
to comparisons of marijuana legalization in Colo-
rado and Washington.
The Center also launched the Initiative on 21st
Century Capitalism to examine the purpose of the
corporation and how stakeholders’ understanding of
it—including issues of executive compensation and
short-term trading—drives public policy and regula-
tory decisions.
Giving Educators and
Industry an Objective View
Brookings experts also provided an indepen-
dent voice to hotly debated issues in education.
Senior Fellow Benjamin Wittes, Editor in Chief of Lawfare, testifies before the Senate
Intelligence Committee about the NSA’s surveillance program
Photo
by
toM
WilliaMS
Bringing
Data to the
People
F
or more
than 30
years,
Senior Fel-
low thomas Mann
and his collaborator,
Norman ornstein of
the american Enter-
prise institute, have
produced Vital Sta-
tistics on Congress, a
unique examination
of Congress and
its members. this
year, Governance
Studies brought this
hallmark publica-
tion online, making
each chapter’s data
sets available as
downloadable PDFs
and Excel spread-
sheets. Members of
the general public
were encouraged to
explore and submit
their own analyses
and findings about
Congressional demo-
graphics, election
trends, and campaign
finance. Governance
Studies also pro-
duced an innovative
multimedia video
that explored some
of the statistics in
greater detail.
Co-Chair of the Board
David Rubenstein (left)
and Vice President of
Governance Studies
Darrell West (center)
speak with former Vice
President of the United
States Al Gore prior to
the launch of the Center
for Effective Public
Management
Photo by JEWEl SaMaD/GEtty iMaGES
“(The Center
for Effective
Public
Management)
really is at the
heart of what
we need to
do to make
the United
States of
America what
our founders
intended
and what
our people
deserve.”
—Al Gore, Jr., 45th Vice
President, United States
of America
Photo
by
Paul
MoriGi
20 21
Governance Studies
Authored by Senior Fellow Tom Loveless, the
2014 Brown Center Report on American Educa-
tion revealed that “after all of the debate, the costs
in tax revenue, and blood, sweat, and tears going
into implementation,” some states with Common
Core-like standards did not see gains in some test
scores. The Report’s investigation of homework
found that, despite recent media portrayals, only a
small minority of students has a heavy homework
load and that it has not increased for the average
student.
As information technology evolves at a break-
neck pace, the policy frameworks for governing
new innovations are lagging behind. To help busi-
ness leaders and policymakers stay ahead of the
technology policy curve, the Center for Technol-
ogy Innovation launched the TechTank blog to
examine key questions in areas such as health
care, education, economic development, innova-
tion, and governance. In addition, Vice President
and Director of Governance Studies Darrell West,
the Douglas Dillon Chair in Governance Stud-
ies, testified on Capitol Hill about wireless spec-
trum governance and wrote about “How Mobile
Devices Are Transforming Disaster Relief and
Public Safety” for the Center’s Mobile Economy
Project.
Privacy, National Security, and the Law
Edward Snowden’s leak of classified National
Security Agency (NSA) intelligence transformed
the data security and privacy landscape. Under the
leadership of Senior Fellow Benjamin Wittes, the
Lawfare blog produced “Inside NSA: We Brought
in a Recording Device So You Don’t Have To,”
an exclusive series of podcasts with NSA officials
discussing topics ranging from content versus
metadata collection in surveillance efforts to cor-
porate responsibility for customer information.
These subjects joined the many hard secu-
rity choices examined by Governance Studies.
National Security Law Fellow and Managing Edi-
tor of Lawfare Wells Bennett wrote extensively
about new paradigms for prosecuting terrorism
suspects, while guest speaker Robert Litt, gen-
eral counsel with the Office of the Directorate of
National Intelligence, discussed legal questions
surrounding the agency’s data collection methods.
Professor Nathaniel Persily of Stanford Law School
(right) responds to a question from Senior Fellow
Thomas Mann at an event on voting rights after the
Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County vs. Holder
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Amplifying Brookings Scholarship
F
rom Jonathan Rauch’s Atlantic cover story on the gay marriage
movement to a Brown Center Chalkboard post on deeper learning,
Brookings scholarship gained traction in traditional and online media
outlets.
Senior Fellow William Galston, the Ezra K. Zilkha Chair in Governance Stud-
ies, became a regular columnist at the Wall Street Journal, writing about the
“barista economy,” the social contract, and other topics at the intersection of
governance and socioeconomic trends. Meanwhile, Senior Fellow E.J. Dionne,
Jr. augmented the reach of his regular Washington Post column with frequent
tweets to his some 75,000 followers.
Using a comprehensive media outreach strategy and a range of tools, from
blogs and Twitter to op-eds and press interviews, Governance Studies drove
engagement with its scholars’ research, analysis, and commentary, connecting
with policymakers and the public around the world.
Continued Support for
Research on School Choice
C
harter schools—which didn’t even exist
25 years ago—now have a student
market share of least 20 percent in 32
large school districts. As part of efforts
to provide exemplary education for all children,
school choice and competition—through charters
and open enrollment in regular public schools—
have entered public discussion as empirically
promising components of public school reform.
With support from the Walton Family Foun-
dation, the Brown Center on Education Policy
has, since 2011, produced the Education Choice
and Competition Index (ECCI), which scores large
school districts in 13 categories of policy and
practice. These criteria include less-examined
factors—like availability of transportation—that
impact lower-income families’ ability to choose
schools. ECCI presents the data in an interactive
format intended to create public awareness of the
differences among districts in their support of
school choice, provide a framework for improving
choice and competition, and recognize leaders
among school districts in choice and competition
systems.
In 2014, the Walton Family Foundation
renewed its funding for ECCI, continuing to enable
scholarship that charts and analyzes develop-
ments in education choice and competition.
>
Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/governance
or follow @BrookingsGS
“I’m grateful
to be here
at Brookings
today
discussing
emerging
national
security
threats. I’m
also a keen fan
of the Lawfare
blog, as are
many who are
in this national
security field,
so we
appreciate
your work on
that, as well.”
—John Carlin, Assistant
Attorney General,
National Security, U.S.
Department of Justice
Cameron Kerry, the Ann R. and Andrew H. Tisch
Distinguished Visiting Fellow, moderates a conversation
with Microsoft General Counsel and Executive Vice
President Brad Smith (left) at an event on “The Future
of Global Technology, Privacy, and Regulation”
Photo by Paul Morigi
Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) with Brookings
Managing Director William Antholis
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Senior Fellow Grover “Russ” Whitehurst, the
Herman and George R. Brown Chair in Education
Studies and Director of the Brown Center on
Education Policy, announces findings from the 2013
Education Choice and Competition Index report
Senior Fellow
Elaine Kamarck,
Director of
the Center for
Effective Public
Management,
at the Center’s
launch in
September 2013
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
22 23
Metropolitan Policy
Empowering Cities and Metropolitan Areas
I
n an era marked by economic volatility and
demographic transformation, cities and met-
ropolitan areas face supersized challenges. An
increasingly gridlocked federal government
means that cities, metro areas, and their state
partners must be at the vanguard of problem-
solving. The mission of the Metropolitan Policy
Program is to support them.
Galvanizing Cities to Go Global
Now in its third year, the Global Cities Initiative:
A Joint Project of Brookings and JPMorgan Chase
is helping metropolitan areas grow jobs through
trade. The Initiative’s newly launched Global Cit-
ies Exchange works with 21 metropolitan areas
nationwide on developing and executing strategies
to increase economic competitiveness by focusing
on exports and foreign direct investment. Portland,
Oregon’s metro export plan is already creating new
business opportunities in Japan, Brazil, and China
for its sustainability firms.
At a GCI forum in November 2013, Chicago
Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Mexico City Mayor
Miguel Ángel Mancera entered into a Global Cit-
ies Economic Partnership. This first-of-its-kind
agreement aims to increase employment, expand
advanced industries, and strengthen global com-
petitiveness through joint initiatives in trade, inno-
vation, and education.
“Metro North America” by Research Analyst
Joseph Parilla and Senior Fellow and Deputy
Director Alan Berube identified the top metro-
politan trading relationships in the U.S., Canada,
and Mexico. “FDI in U.S. Metro Areas” by Senior
Policy Analyst and Associate Fellow Devashree
Saha, Policy Analyst Kenan Fikri, and Senior
Research Assistant Nick Marchio tracked foreign
direct investment at the metropolitan level for the
first time.
Supporting the Advanced Economy
Advanced industries—such as automotive, aero-
space, and information technology—are at the
heart of a strong metropolitan economy, driving
innovation and productivity through high rates of
research and development investment and employ-
ing disproportionate numbers of skilled STEM
(science, technology, engineering, and math)
workers.
In “The Hidden STEM Economy,” Associate
Fellow Jonathan Rothwell demonstrated that one
in five U.S. jobs relies on a high level of STEM
skills. These skills increasingly power advanced
manufacturing and services industries and connect
Mexico City Mayor Miguel Ángel Mancera (left) and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel
sign an economic partnership agreement, stewarded by the Global Cities Initiative,
to strengthen the relationship between the two cities and expand job growth and
economic opportunities
Photo
by
Aquiles
Duarte
Inspiring Action in Cities
and Metropolitan Areas 
I
n June 2013, Brookings released The Metro­
politan Revolution by Vice President Bruce
Katz and Fellow Jennifer Bradley. The
book—Brookings’s best-selling in the past
five years—is changing the way political, business,
philanthropic, and civic leaders across the country
­
collaborate to compete.
Manufacturing has become a priority again
in Louisville and Lexington, and San Antonio and
Miami are investing in infrastructure. Chicago
and New York City are training workers with the
skills they need, while St. Louis and Detroit are
stewarding nascent innovation districts and San
Diego and Portland are designing globally focused
economic strategies. The Metropolitan Revolution
has received widespread media coverage from
key opinion-makers including columns by David
Brooks and Thomas Friedman of the New York
Times and Edward Luce of the Financial Times.
photo by David Gn Photography/Getty Images
Trustee Peter Scher and former U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills listen as William Daley, former Chief of Staff under President Obama (left
to right), discusses issues in global trade at a Global Cities Initiative forum in Phoenix, Arizona
Photo
by
Brett
Campbell
“Local
governments
and civil
society, as well
as business
leaders
and urban
planners, have
come together
to chart their
own course
to spark job
creation and
catalyze long-
term economic
growth.”
—Judith Rodin,
President, Rockefeller
Foundation, in the
foreword to The
Metropolitan Revolution
The Metropolitan Revolution app explains what the
metro revolution is, why it matters, and how to get
involved
24 25
Metropolitan Policy
millions of workers with less than a bachelor’s
degree to well-paying jobs in fields such as health
care, computer systems, and installation and
maintenance.
In February 2014, Metro hosted Colorado
Governor John Hickenlooper and Tennessee Gov-
ernor Bill Haslam at an event that highlighted
efforts to bolster advanced industries in their
states. Tennessee used recommendations from the
Brookings report “Drive!” to launch a $10 million
Skills Gap Grant Competition encouraging work-
force innovation. Colorado referenced the Brook-
ings report “Launch!” in its creation of a 10-year,
$150 million matching grant program to accelerate
commercialization of the state’s advanced industry
technologies.
Photo
by
KWAbENA
shAbu
CCsD/CIty
oF
DEtroIt
Greater Seattle’s Latest
Innovation Capacity:
Smart Buildings
T
hree years ago, Metro worked with
leaders in the Puget sound region
through the brookings-rockefeller
Project on state and Metropolitan
Innovation to help develop a plan for maintaining
Greater seattle’s edge as a center of innovation.
today the region is developing new
capabilities in smart building technologies to meet
rising global demand. the Puget sound regional
Council organized public and private leaders
to harness the region’s unparalleled market
strengths in software and information technology,
strong sustainability ethos, and network of
higher education institutions to design, test, and
scale new data- and technology-driven energy
efficiency solutions.
the three-pronged “smart building” effort is
already delivering results. these efforts include
the launch of a high-performance buildings
pilot at four sites to test energy consumption-
management using cloud computing, the opening
of a smart buildings Center hub, and a new
sustainable building technology degree program
at a community college.
the seattle region is, like other metro areas
that have benefited from the support of the
brookings-rockefeller Project, improving its
innovation, trade, and skills assets to further
growth and prosperity in the next economy.
Learning from
Our Stakeholders
T
he Metropolitan Policy Program relies
heavily on the Metropolitan leadership
Council—a network of business,
civic, and philanthropic leaders—as
financial and intellectual partners. this group of
stakeholders advances and supports solutions
that leverage the unique assets of partner
metropolitan areas.
In october 2013, Metro presented plans to
the Council on research and policy work, on-the-
ground engagements, and network-building
activities for three of the Program’s emerging
areas of work: skills and the advanced economy,
transformative infrastructure, and innovation
districts.
the gathering also included a special
discussion on the future of Detroit. Moderated by
Fellow Jennifer bradley, the discussion featured
the Kresge Foundation’s laura trudeau, the
Detroit Economic Growth Corporation’s George
Jackson, and Vice President of the Metropolitan
Policy Program bruce Katz. Panelists discussed
the investments underway in Detroit and the
implications of Detroit’s bankruptcy for other
cities and metropolitan areas.
Engagement with the Metropolitan
leadership Council at the october meeting and
throughout the year was crucial to the successful
development of Metro’s emerging areas of work.
Increasing numbers of companies from
advanced services sectors, like software and life
sciences, are concentrating in urban-centered
innovation districts. Vice President and Co-
Director of the Metropolitan Policy Program
Bruce Katz, the Adeline M. and Alfred I. Johnson
Chair in Urban and Metropolitan Policy, and
Nonresident Senior Fellow Julie Wagner explained
in “The Rise of Innovation Districts” how these
districts, from Cambridge’s Kendall Square to
Seattle’s South Lake Union, are combining the
economic, physical, and networking assets that
help innovative firms and workers thrive. In June
2014, with support from Brookings, Detroit Mayor
Mike Duggan announced plans to establish an
innovation district in his city in collaboration with
university, civic, and corporate leaders.
Promoting Opportunity for All
Six years after the start of the Great Recession,
falling unemployment and rising output at the
national level belie the continued economic
struggles facing many workers and families. In
“The Plummeting Labor Market Fortunes of Teens
and Young Adults,” Fellow Martha Ross and other
authors found that younger workers are bearing
the brunt of those struggles. Rising inequality has
become a focal point for debate, particularly in
major cities like New York, San Francisco, and
Boston. In “All Cities Are Not Created Unequal,”
Senior Fellow Alan Berube found that inequality
in these cities is much higher than the national
average and that mayors can do more to promote
social and economic mobility.
Efforts to reduce inequality and promote
employment opportunities must go beyond sum-
mer jobs and minimum wage programs, however. In
“Beyond Shovel Ready,” Senior Fellow Rob Puentes
and Research Assistant Joseph Kane provided the
first-ever definition of infrastructure jobs, which
offer above-average wages to individuals without
a college degree, and argued that policymakers
should focus on the opportunity these 14 million
(and growing) infrastructure jobs present.
>Explore beyond the highlights.
Visit brookings.edu/metro
or follow @BrookingsMetro
Yuki Noguchi of NPR leads a conversation with Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam and Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper (left to right) on their
efforts to expand advanced industries and the need for a supportive federal platform
Photo
by
rAlPh
AlsWANG
Denver Mayor Michael Hancock (left) stands with former
Chicago Mayor Richard Daley, Chairman of the Global
Cities Initiative, after participating in a GCI forum in
Denver, Colorado
Photo
by
KEVIN
bECKEr/AllÉE
PhotoGrAPhy
Senior Fellow and
Co-Director of the
Metropolitan Policy
Program Amy Liu (left)
greets Gene Sperling,
Director of the National
Economic Council and
Assistant to the President
for Economic Policy,
before an address in
which he laid out the
Obama administration’s
perspective on U.S.
manufacturing
Photo
by
PAul
MorIGI
CEO of the Henry Ford Health System Nancy M. Schlichting (left), Detroit Mayor Mike
Duggan (second from right), and Detroit City Council President Brenda Jones (far
right) listen as Vice President and Co-Director of the Metropolitan Policy Program
Bruce Katz discusses the role of innovation districts in fostering economic growth
in Detroit
“When I read
(The Rise of
Innovation
Districts),
it started to
crystallize all
the elements
that were
already
happening in
Chattanooga,
and then
made (me)
understand
what we
needed to do
to take them to
the next level.”
—Andy Berke, Mayor,
Chattanooga, Tennessee
The Second Century Campaign
27
26
Building the Future of Policy Research
he challenges facing the U.S. and the
international community when Brook-
ings was founded in 1916 were very
different from those the world is deal-
ing with today. The tools to overcome
them, though, remain the same—effec-
tive policymaking driven by an engaged, informed
citizenry and undergirded by high-quality, indepen-
dent research. As Brookings approaches its cen-
tenary and with the policy agenda growing at an
unprecedented pace, Brookings launched the $600
million Second Century Campaign—the largest
in think tank history—to build capacity to tackle
pressing issues and reach new audiences.
As of the launch of the Campaign in October
2013, generous contributors had already commit-
ted nearly $400 million toward that total. “The
Second Century Campaign will provide the means
for our scholars to elevate their game and to take
on the problems that may seem intractable and
insoluble but that we can and will fix,” said Cam-
paign Chair Glenn Hutchins. President Strobe
T
Co-Chair of the Board
John Thornton and
President Strobe Talbott
listen as Second Century
Campaign Chair and
Vice Chair of the Board
Glenn Hutchins (left to
right) explains how the
Campaign will elevate
Brookings’s work to
meet the needs of an
ever-more complex and
interconnected world
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Trustee Victoria P.
Sant explains why she
chooses to engage with
Brookings’s work during
the launch of the Second
Century Campaign in
October 2013
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Former Mayor of New
York City Michael
Bloomberg speaks with
President Strobe Talbott
(right) following the
launch of the Second
Century Campaign
earlier that day
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Talbott added, “For Brookings to address the
nation’s crises, we need to be confident of our own
fiscal sustainability over the long term.”
Co-Chair of the Board John Thornton noted
the critical role of donors to Brookings’s success.
“We haven’t gotten here alone. It has taken gener-
ous investments throughout our history to build
an Institution as distinctive and lasting as this.
That remains as true today as it was when Robert
Brookings came to Washington.”
The problems the world will face at the end
of our second century in 2116 are hard to predict.
But two things are certain: they will be even more
complex and interconnected, and Brookings will be
in great demand to provide the kind of research and
analysis that has made it the indispensable resource
it is today. There will be Brookings moments like so
many that have come before—when the challenges
are immense and governing institutions are not
up to the task of solving them. Now is the time to
help meet those challenges head on by investing in
Brookings’s future.
“In a time when
our politics are
archly divisive
and we cannot
even perform
the basic tasks
of governance,
Brookings is
prepared and
able to lead.
Leadership
takes resources,
which is what
makes the
Second Century
Campaign
so vitally
important.”
—Glenn Hutchins,
Chair, Second Century
Campaign and Vice
Chair, Board of Trustees
28 29
Support for Brookings
he terrific work that Brookings experts
do to help policymakers is driven by
the engine of philanthropy. Resources
contributed by Brookings donors—indi-
viduals, corporations, foundations, and
governments—enable Brookings to bring
together top minds for informed discussion of press-
ing issues. Through dedicated outreach and frequent
opportunities to hear from Brookings experts, the
Institution connects its supporters with innovative
ideas that shape the public debate, frame the policy
agenda, and advance practical solutions to meet the
challenges of today’s world.
Engaging Private Sector Leaders
with Policy Research
Through the Brookings Council, business and com-
munity leaders are able to speak with Brookings
experts in intimate settings and private meetings.
The Council’s annual program of scholar briefings,
panel discussions, conference calls, and other activi-
ties enables real dialogue on key issues and breaking
developments across the world. Council mem-
bers bring an important perspective to Brookings’s
research as well, since so many of them are working
on the front lines of the U.S. and global economy.
Their real-world experiences ground Brookings
T
Connecting People with
Innovative Thinking
Then-Acting Vice President of Foreign Policy Ted Piccone listens as Vice
Chair of the Board Suzanne Nora Johnson (right) leads a conversation on
issues facing policymakers and business leaders in Latin America during
a session of the 2014 International Advisory Council meeting
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Co-Chair of the Board
David Rubenstein welcomes
Trustees and members of
the International Advisory
Council to dinner at the
Newseum, which featured
remarks from U.S. Secretary
of State John Kerry
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Trustee Phil Knight discusses Brookings’s research agenda
with Distinguished Fellow Javier Solana (right)
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Co-Chair of the Board John Thornton speaks with Trustee Paul Achleitner
during a break at a Board meeting
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Brookings Trustees
and guests gather at
the Chihuly Garden
and Glass museum
in Seattle during the
November Board
meeting
PHOTO BY AZZURA PHOTOGRAPHY
Co-Chair of the International Advisory Council and Trustee
Antoine van Agtmael (right) and Trustee Alfonso Fanjul listen
as a panel of Brookings experts discusses developments
in the Arab Spring countries three years after the popular
uprisings
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
30 31
Support for Brookings
Co-Chair of the International Advisory Council and Trustee
Paul Desmarais, Jr. shares his key takeaways from the
2014 International Advisory Council meeting
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Members of the Foreign Policy Leadership Council
John Popp and Trustee Ben Jacobs (right) discuss the
program’s recent activities during the launch of the
Second Century Campaign
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Trustee Bart
Friedman (left)
participates in
a Nominations
and Governance
Committee meeting
alongside General
Counsel Ona Alston
Dosunmu
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
Trustee Hanzade
Do˘
gan Boyner leads
a conversation on
the recent financial
uncertainty in Europe
during a session of
the 2014 International
Advisory Council meeting
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
A Firsthand View of America’s Future
E
mpirical research and scholarly analysis about the drivers of innova-
tion, entrepreneurship, and economic growth can provide valuable
insights into pivotal issues. But for getting deeper into the important
questions, there’s no substitute for experiencing them firsthand
through conversations with public and private sector decisionmakers and vis-
its to key facilities where the future is coming to life. To give members of the
Board of Trustees and the International Advisory Council these unique oppor-
tunities, Brookings organized its first domestic study tour, building on previous
international excursions to Russia, China, India, and Cuba. Starting in Seattle,
where the group joined substantive sessions at the Brookings Board meeting,
the itinerary included stops in Williston, North Dakota, Las Vegas, and Silicon
Valley.
Over the course of a busy week, the travelers met with business leaders
like Starbucks Chairman, President, and CEO Howard Schultz and visited inno-
vation centers including Microsoft’s campus, where they heard from then-CEO
Steve Ballmer, Boeing’s Everett Delivery Center, Tesla Motors, and Genentech’s
pilot plant. Tour participants also saw fracking operations in the frigid oil fields
of the Bakken formation and took an exclusive tour of the Hoover Dam.
Throughout the trip, travelers gained new and valuable insights into an
American renaissance built on growing energy independence, a commitment
to innovation, and pragmatic, problem-solving leadership at the state and local
levels.
Participants in the U.S. Study Tour visit a pilot plant at Genentech’s research
facility in San Francisco
PHOTO
BY
PAUL
MORIGI
PHOTO
BY
KIMBERLY
CHURCHES
scholarship and strengthen understanding of how
economic, social, and foreign policy responses to
issues may play out when they are implemented.
Brookings is grateful to the Council for its financial
support and intellectual engagement in the Institu-
tion’s scholarship.
The Robert S. Brookings Society, launched in
2013, provides a forum for emerging professionals
and leaders to engage with top experts from Brook-
ings on the most critical public policy questions
facing decisionmakers in the U.S. and around the
world. The Society gets a first look at Brookings
research and analysis and invitations to exclusive
events that offer opportunities for rich intellectual
exchanges with Brookings scholars and a network
of peers. Most recently, the Society calendar has
featured conversations with Senior Fellow Thomas
Mann, Fellows Douglas Elliot and Richard Reeves,
and President Strobe Talbott.
Brookings Beyond the Beltway
…and Across the Globe
Brookings has been an important part of the Wash-
ington policy community for nearly a century. But, as
gridlock in the federal government has forced state-
and local-level leaders to take more responsibility
for solving problems, there has been an increased
demand for high-quality policy research and analysis
outside the nation’s capital.
To answer this need, Brookings has begun
expanding Council activities beyond its longstand-
ing cities of Washington and New York to connect
new audiences with innovative ideas for meeting the
most difficult challenges. In Los Angeles, Trustee
Robert Abernethy hosted Peter W. Singer, then-
Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on 21st
Century Security and Intelligence, and in Boston,
President Strobe
Talbott listens as
Starbucks Chairman,
President, and CEO
Howard Schultz
(left) explains his
company’s smart
growth strategy
during a Board of
Trustees meeting in
Seattle
PHOTO
BY
AZZURA
PHOTOGRAPHY
32 33
Support for Brookings
Brookings Welcomes Four New Trustees
B
rookings elected four new Trustees to the Board in 2014. They join a
distinguished group of leading business executives, academics, and
community leaders who help govern the affairs of the Institution.
The Board, which meets three times per year, approves the fields of
scholarly investigation and safeguards the independence of the Institution’s
work. Brookings welcomes its newest members to the Board of Trustees:
W. Edmund Clark
President and CEO
TD Bank Group
Betsy Z. Cohen
Chief Executive Officer
The Bancorp
Arthur R. Collins
Managing Partner
theGROUP
Peter Scher
Executive Vice President and
Head of Corporate Responsibility
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Expanding Leadership to Meet the
Challenges of the Next Century
In response to an annual budget that has nearly doubled and a footprint that
now includes three international centers and several new initiatives, Brookings
added a new position of co-chair of the Board of Trustees. Joining John L.
Thornton, who has been chair of the Board since 2002, David M. Rubenstein,
co-founder and co-CEO of the Carlyle Group and a Brookings Board member
since 2009, brings substantial management experience to the leadership of
the Institution.
Trustees Ezra Zilkha (right) and Ben Jacobs
exchange views between sessions at the March
Board meeting
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Brookings Council
member Joanne Barker
(left) and Trustee Beatrice
Welters discuss the
themes President Clinton
laid out in his remarks
during the inaugural
Robert S. Brookings
President’s Lecture
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Trustees Al Engelberg (left)
and Tracy Wolstencroft confer
after the launch of the Second
Century Campaign
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Trustee Abby Joseph Cohen (right) listens as Trustee
Cyrus Freidheim, Jr. poses a question during a joint
meeting of the Board and International Advisory
Council
Trustee Lawrence Fish hosted Managing Director
Bill Antholis and Trustee Ann Fudge hosted Vice
President of Governance Studies Darrell West.
Looking ahead, Brookings is planning an expanded
presence in additional cities, including Chicago and
San Francisco.
An increasingly interconnected and global-
ized world also has an increased interest in policy-
relevant research to help inform the international
community about options for tackling important
challenges. Brookings opened overseas centers in
Beijing in 2006 and in Doha in 2008 to provide
regional platforms for discourse on issues facing
Asia and the Middle East. Both centers are firmly
established as valued resources for the media and
the public and private sectors and have established
critical links with the work that Brookings experts
are doing in Washington.
With the support of the Brookings India Found-
ers Circle—a group of business and civic leaders
from India and the United States—the Institution
launched Brookings India in 2013. The center in
New Delhi is a resource for developing practical
solutions for the challenges facing the world’s largest
democracy. Indian experts are working closely with
colleagues in the Brookings India Project in Wash-
ington to elevate the profile of India-related issues
with policymakers around the world.
Through public and private events, frequent
publications, and media outreach, Brookings experts
across the U.S. and internationally are having a
major impact on global policy debates. An expanded
presence and network help broaden the Institution’s
national and international reach and provides oppor-
tunities for engagement with new audiences.
Trustee Pete Higgins (left) talks with Vice President and Co-Director of
the Metropolitan Policy Program Bruce Katz, the Adeline M. and Alfred I.
Johnson Chair in Urban and Metropolitan Policy
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Trustees Cheryl Cohen Effron,
Crandall Bowles, and Ellen Futter
(left to right) at the March Board
meeting
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
34 35
International Advisory Council
he Brookings International Advisory
Council, established in 2006, brings
together business and community
leaders from across the world for in-
depth discussions of global challenges.
With 34 members from 25 countries
on five continents, the Council helps give Brook-
ings research a truly global perspective and helps
expand the reach of its impact. Throughout the
year, members of the Council have opportunities
to engage with Brookings experts in Washington
and their home countries.
The centerpiece of the International Advisory
Council is its annual meeting in Washington,
which features a range of panel discussions and
conversations with Brookings scholars, along with
opportunities to hear from senior policymakers.
These meetings enable members to share their
views and give insights into pressing policy topics
and how breaking events affect their home coun-
tries and regions.
2014 International Advisory Council
Meeting: The Return of Geopolitics
The Brookings International Advisory Council con-
vened in Washington for its ninth annual gather-
ing at a time of increased attention to geopolitics
and the global economic issues that drive business
decisionmaking around the world. Through sessions
on Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, Europe,
American leadership and competitiveness, social
mobility, and NSA surveillance, as well as briefings
from Secretary of State John Kerry and other senior
policymakers, members of the Council explored
critical issues around the world.
Russia’s incursion into Ukraine—and whether
it heralds a return to the great power struggles of
the previous century—found its way into almost
every discussion. Likewise, with Europe having
just concluded parliamentary elections, partici-
pants examined the messages that voters had sent
to their home governments and implications for
the future of the European Union. China also
came in for close examination, as the effects of its
slowing growth ripple outward to the rest of the
global economy and its territorial disputes with
Japan, Vietnam, and the Philippines threaten to
escalate.
Senior Fellow Fiona Hill, Director of the Center on the United States and Europe,
discusses the impact of the situation in Ukraine on the European Union and NATO
during a session of the 2014 International Advisory Council meeting
Photo
by
Paul
Morigi
Fostering Global
Engagement
through the
International
Advisory Council
Antoine W. van Agtmael
Co-Chairman of the IAC
Senior Adviser
Garten Rothkopf
Former Chairman
Ashmore EMM, LLC
Paul Desmarais, Jr.
Co-Chairman of the IAC
Chairman and Co-CEO
Power Corporation of Canada
Mohammed Mahfoodh
Alardhi
Chairman
Rimal Investments
Oman
Mukesh Ambani
Chairman
Reliance Industries
India
Rahul Bajaj
Chairman
Bajaj Auto Limited
India
Hakeem Belo-Osagie
Chairman
Etisalat Nigeria
Nigeria
Nicolas Berggruen
Chairman
Berggruen Holdings
United States
George David
Chairman
Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company
Greece
Mick Davis
Founding Partner
X2 Resources Limited
United Kingdom
John Elkann
Chairman
FIAT SpA
Italy
Yukitoshi Funo
Chief Executive Officer
Institute for International Economic
Studies
Senior Advisor to the Board
Toyota Motor Corporation
Japan
Pablo González Guajardo
Chief Executive Officer
Kimberly-Clark de México
Mexico
J. Jon Imaz
CEO
Repsol
Spain
Takashi Kawamura
Chairman and CEO
Hitachi, Ltd.
Japan
Andrónico Luksic
Vice Chairman
Banco de Chile
Chile
Philip Mallinckrodt
Group Head of Wealth Management
Schroders PLC
United Kingdom
Jorge Mandelbaum
Chairman of the Advisory Board
CIPPEC (Center for the
Implementation of Public Policy)
Argentina
Jaime J. Montealegre
President
Sigma Management, S.A.
Costa Rica
Javier Monzón
Chairman
Indra
Spain
Hutham S. Olayan
President and CEO, Olayan America
The Olayan Group
Saudi Arabia
José Oliu Creus
President
Banc Sabadell
Spain
Jorma Ollila
Chairman
Royal Dutch Shell
Netherlands
Juan Pardinas
Director General
IMCO
Mexico
Victor Pinchuk
Founder
EastOne Ltd.
Ukraine
Marian Puig
EXEA
Spain
Itamar Rabinovich
President
Israel Institute
Bronfman Distinguished Nonresident
Senior Fellow
Brookings
Israel
Nassef Sawiris
Chief Executive Officer
Orascom Construction Industries
Egypt
Tokyo Sexwale
Sexwale Family Foundation
Republic of South Africa
Charles Sirois
Chairman of the Board
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
Canada
Kihak Sung
Chairman and CEO
Youngone Corporation
South Korea
Dato’ Sri Tahir
Chairman and CEO
Mayapada Group
Indonesia
Marcus Wallenberg
Chairman
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB
Sweden
Yuanqing Yang
Chairman and CEO
Lenovo Group
China
Dieter Zetsche
Chairman
Daimler Corporation
Germany
T
Program Leadership Councils
ECONOMIC STUDIES
COUNCIL
Wilbur Ross, Chairman
H. Rodgin Cohen,
Vice Chairman
Julia Coronado
Jason Cummins
Marcello Estevao
Chris Faulkner-MacDonagh
Stephen Freidheim
Jeffrey A. Goldstein
George Kellner
Evan Morris
Andrew Plepler
Nancy D. Prior
Steven Rattner
Chris Rokos
Tim Ryan
Paul Saltzman
Paul Schott Stevens
Yasuyuki Sugiura
Michael L. Tipsord
Debra Valentine
Heather Wingate
FOREIGN POLICY
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL
Dominic Barton
Charles Bronfman
Paul L. Cejas
Ronald Cohen
Jonathan E. Colby
Howard E. Cox
Alan Dachs
Mick Davis
Chris DeLong
Feng Deng
Joshua Donfeld
Dorothy Dwoskin
Alfonso Fanjul
Raj Fernando
Lawrence K. Fish
David Fisher
Bart Friedman
Vartan Gregorian
Andrew Gundlach
Roger Hertog
Benjamin R. Jacobs
Suzanne Nora Johnson
David Kamenetzky
Samer Khoury
Edward Lamont
Dan W. Lufkin
John G. Macfarlane III
Richard Nye
John G. Popp
Joseph L. Rice III
Stephen Robert
David Rogers
David M. Rubenstein
Haim Saban
Joseph N. Sanberg
William A. Shutzer
Jay Snyder
David S. Steiner
George Tsunis
Poju Zabludowicz
Mortimer B. Zuckerman
GLOBAL LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL
Suzanne Nora Johnson,
Chair
Deborah Duncan
Lou Anne King Jensen
Tawfic Khoury
Jonathan Schaffzin
Ercument Tokat
GOVERNANCE
STUDIES COUNCIL
Rebecca Arbogast
Daniel Berger
William D. Budinger
Louis W. Cabot
Daniel Cruise
Gary L. Ginsberg
Joel Z. Hyatt
Robert D. Jensen
William Kamela
Jeri Kubicki
Daniel Z. Levine
Robyn Lippert
Michael Lopez
Carol Melton
R. Hewlett Pate
Edgar Rios
A. Alfred and Judy Taubman
Claude Wasserstein
Seymour and Kate Weingarten
Heather West
John H. White, Jr.
Carol Wilner
Ezra K. Zilkha
Adam and Ariel Zurofsky
METROPOLITAN
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL
AIG
Alcoa Foundation
Bank of America
Bluegrass Economic
Advancement Movement
(BEAM)
Annie E. Casey Foundation
CenterState Corporation for
Economic Opportunity
The Civic Council of Greater
Kansas City
Comcast NBCUniversal
The Nathan Cummings
Foundation
Steven A. Denning
Paul Desmarais, Jr.
The Dream Fund at UCLA
Cheryl Cohen Effron
FedEx Corporation
Ford Foundation
GE
The George Gund Foundation
The Heinz Endowments
Hitachi, Ltd.
James A. Johnson
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Tom Kaplan
Monica Keany
Richard A. Kimball, Jr.
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &
Co.
The Kresge Foundation
Lear Corporation
Lennar Urban
Living Cities, Inc.
Lumina Foundation
The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation
McKnight Foundation
Microsoft Corporation
Mario M. Morino
Charles Stewart Mott
Foundation
National Center for the
Middle Market (NCMM)
New Economy Initiative of
Southeast Michigan
RBC Capital Markets
James D. Robinson III
The Rockefeller Foundation
Rob Roy
Louis Salkind
San Diego Regional Economic
Development Corporation
Victoria P. Sant
Siemens Corporation
Surdna Foundation
Lynn Thoman
UnitedHealth Group, Inc.
Antoine W. van Agtmael
Jeffrey Walker
Mallory Walker
William Walker
Tracy R. Wolstencroft
rookings’s five research programs have
established advisory boards of busi-
ness, civic, and philanthropic leaders
who provide strategic thinking about
research topics and outreach activi-
ties, as well as financial support. The
B
composition, size, and role of these leadership
councils varies according to program needs; some
convene as intimate, working-level conversations
that include other program supporters and stake-
holders, and others focus more on expert briefings
about pressing policy issues.
International Advisory Council
36 37
Board of Trustees Honor Roll of Contributors
John L. Thornton
Co-Chair of the Board
Brookings
David M. Rubenstein
Co-Chair of the Board
Brookings
Co-Founder and Co-CEO
The Carlyle Group
Glenn Hutchins
Vice Chair of the Board
Brookings
Co-Founder
Silver Lake
Suzanne Nora Johnson
Vice Chair of the Board
Brookings
Former Vice Chairman
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Strobe Talbott
President
Brookings
Robert J. Abernethy
President
American Standard Development
Co., Inc.
Paul M. Achleitner
Non-Executive Chairman
Deutsche Bank AG
Liaquat Ahamed
Former Chief Executive Officer
Fischer Francis Trees and Watts,
Inc.
Dominic Barton
Global Managing Director
McKinsey & Company, Inc.
Robert M. Bass
President
Keystone Group, L.P.
Alan R. Batkin
Chairman
Converse Associates, Inc.
Crandall Bowles
Chairman
The Springs Company
Hanzade Do˘
gan Boyner
Vice Chairwoman
Do˘
gan Holding ¸
Sirketler Grubu
A.¸
S.
Paul L. Cejas
Chairman
PLC Investment, Inc.
W. Edmund Clark
President and CEO
TD Bank Group
Abby Joseph Cohen
President, Global Markets
Institute; and Senior
Investment Strategist
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Betsy Z. Cohen
Chief Executive Officer
The Bancorp
Arthur R. Collins
Managing Partner
theGROUP
Howard Cox
Advisory Partner
Greylock
Arthur B. Culvahouse, Jr.
Partner
O’Melveny & Myers LLP
Alan M. Dachs
President and CEO
Fremont Group
Paul Desmarais, Jr.
Chairman and Co-CEO
Power Corporation of Canada
Kenneth M. Duberstein
Chairman and CEO
The Duberstein Group, Inc.
Cheryl Cohen Effron
Founder
Conjunction Fund
Alfred B. Engelberg
Trustee
The Engelberg Foundation
Alfonso Fanjul
Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer
Fanjul Corp. and Florida Crystals
Corporation
Bart Friedman
Senior Partner
Cahill Gordon & Reindel
Ann M. Fudge
Former Chairman and CEO
Young & Rubicam Brands
Ellen V. Futter
President
American Museum of Natural
History
Brian L. Greenspun
Chairman and CEO
Greenspun Media Group
Pete Higgins
Founding Partner
Second Avenue Partners
Shirley Ann Jackson, Ph.D.
President
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Benjamin R. Jacobs
Senior Advisor/Founder
The JBG Companies
Richard A. Kimball, Jr.
Chief Strategy Officer
Accretive Health Inc.
Klaus Kleinfeld
Chairman and CEO
Alcoa, Inc.
Philip H. Knight
Chairman
Nike, Inc.
Nigel Morris
Managing Partner
QED Investors
James Murren
Chairman and CEO
MGM Resorts International
Thomas C. Ramey
Former Chairman
Liberty International, Liberty
Mutual Group
Steven Rattner
Chairman
Willett Advisors LLC
Edgar Rios
Co-Founder and Managing
Director
Wenzi Capital Partners
James Rogers
Retired Chairman and CEO
Duke Energy
Wilbur Ross
Chairman and Chief Strategy
Officer
WL Ross & Co. LLC
Haim Saban
Chairman and CEO
Saban Capital Group, Inc.
Victoria P. Sant
President
The Summit Foundation
Leonard D. Schaeffer
Founding Chairman and CEO
WellPoint
Peter Scher
Executive Vice President
and Head of Corporate
Responsibility
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Amy W. Schulman
Senior Lecturer
Harvard Business School
Lynn Thoman
Co-Chair
Leon Lowenstein Foundation
Andrew H. Tisch
Co-Chairman of the Board and
Chairman of the Executive
Committee
Loews Corporation
Beatrice W. Welters
Founder and Co-Chairperson
AnBryce Foundation
John H. White, Jr.
President and CEO
Taco, Inc.
Tracy R. Wolstencroft
CEO
Heidrick and Struggles
Daniel Yergin
Vice Chairman
IHS, Inc.
Lei Zhang
Founder and CEO
Hillhouse Capital Management
Daniel B. Zwirn
Managing Partner
Zwirn Family Interests, LLC
Honorary Trustees
Zoë Baird
President
The Markle Foundation
Rex J. Bates
Richard C. Blum
Chairman and President
Blum Capital Partners, LP
Geoffrey T. Boisi
Chairman and CEO
Roundtable Investment Partners
LLC
Louis W. Cabot, chair emeritus
Chairman
Cabot-Wellington LLC
Kenneth W. Dam
Max Pam Professor
	 of American & Foreign Law
University of Chicago Law School
Steven A. Denning
Chairman
General Atlantic
Vishakha N. Desai, Ph.D.
Special Advisor for Global Affairs
Columbia University
Thomas E. Donilon
Former U.S. National Security
Advisor
Senior Partner
O’Melveny & Myers LLP
Lawrence K. Fish
Former Chairman and CEO
Citizens Financial Group, Inc.
Cyrus F. Freidheim, Jr.
Chairman
Old Harbour Partners, LLC
David Friend
Executive Chairman
Carbonite, Inc.
Henry Louis Gates, Jr.
Director, Hutchins Center for
African & African American
Research
Harvard University
William A. Haseltine, Ph.D.
President
The Haseltine Foundation
Chairman
Haseltine Global Health, LLC
Teresa Heinz
Chairman
Heinz Family Foundation
Joel Z. Hyatt
Kenneth M. Jacobs
Chairman and CEO
Lazard
James A. Johnson,
chair emeritus
Chairman
Johnson Capital Partners
Ann Dibble Jordan
Vernon E. Jordan, Jr.
Of Counsel
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld, LLP
Nemir Kirdar
Founder, Executive Chairman
and CEO
Investcorp
Donald F. McHenry
Distinguished Professor in the
Practice of Diplomacy and
International Affairs
School of Foreign Service
Georgetown University
Rajan Bharti Mittal
Vice Chairman and Managing
Director
Bharti Enterprises Limited
Mario M. Morino
Co-Founder and Chairman
Venture Philanthropy Partners
Samuel Pisar, Ph.D.
International Lawyer
New York and Paris
James D. Robinson III
General Partner and Co-Founder
RRE Ventures
Ralph S. Saul
Former Chairman
CIGNA Corporation
Michael P. Schulhof
Chairman and CEO
Global Technology Investments
Larry D. Thompson
Executive VP of Governmental
Affairs, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary
PepsiCo, Inc.
Michael L. Tipsord
Vice Chairman and Chief
Operating Officer
State Farm Insurance Companies
Antoine W. van Agtmael
Senior Adviser
Garten Rothkopf
Former Chairman
Ashmore EMM, LLC
John C. Whitehead,
chair emeritus
Stephen M. Wolf
Managing Partner
Alpilles, Inc.
Ezra K. Zilkha
President
Zilkha & Sons, Inc.
Cash and In-Kind Contributions Received July 1, 2013-June 30, 2014
$2,000,000 and Above
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation
The Hutchins Family Foundation
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation
David M. Rubenstein
Embassy of the State of Qatar
John L. Thornton
$1,000,000–$1,999,999
Anonymous
Carnegie Corporation of
New York
Ford Foundation
Philip Knight
Cecilia Yen Koo and the
Koo Family
Richard Merkin
The Rockefeller Foundation
Cheryl and Haim Saban
United Arab Emirates
University of Nevada, Las Vegas
Washington University in
St. Louis
$500,000–$999,999
Anonymous (2)
Laura and John Arnold Foundation
The Brown Foundation, Inc.
of Houston
Annie E. Casey Foundation
Chevron
Ray and Barbara Dalio
Echidna Giving
Exxon Mobil Corporation
Genentech–A Member of The
Roche Group
Japan International Cooperation
Agency
The JPB Foundation
Liberty Mutual Group
Lumina Foundation
Stavros Niarchos Foundation
Government of Norway
Qualcomm Incorporated
Steven Rattner and
Maureen White
The Rodel Foundations
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation
The Andrew H. and Ann R. Tisch
Foundation
UnitedHealth Group, Inc.
Antoine van Agtmael, Sunrise
Foundation
The Walton Family Foundation
$250,000–$499,999
Anonymous
Alcoa Foundation
Bank of America
S.D. Bechtel, Jr. Foundation
Richard C. Blum and the
Honorable Dianne Feinstein
Robert Bosch Stiftung
British Foreign & Commonwealth
Office
CENTCOM (U.S. Army
Intelligence and Security
Command)
The Clearing House Association
Comcast NBCUniversal
Government of Denmark
Hanzade Do˘
gan Boyner, Do˘
gan
Group
Doha Carbon & Energy Forum
Cheryl Cohen Effron
and Blair W. Effron
The Financial Services Forum
Google Inc.
Hitachi, Ltd.
Hotel Properties Limited
The International Fund for
Agricultural Development
(IFAD)
Gail and Benjamin Jacobs
Kenneth M. Jacobs
Embassy of Japan
The Japan Foundation Center for
Global Partnership
Keppel Group
The Korea Foundation
Ralph S. Saul
Searle Freedom Trust
Sembcorp Industries Ltd.
State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company
ST Engineering
Surdna Foundation
Government of Switzerland
Taipei Economic and Cultural
Representative Office in the
United States
Turkish Industry and Business
Association (TUSIAD)
U.S. Agency for International
Development
$100,000–$249,999
Anonymous (8)
Robert John Abernethy
Paul Achleitner and Deutsche
Bank AG
AIG
Mohammed Mahfoodh Alardhi
Altman/Kazickas Foundation
Amgen
AT&T
Australian Civil-Military Centre–
Department of Defence
Barrick Gold Corporation
Anne T. and Robert M. Bass
Nicolas Berggruen
BP plc
The Andrea and Charles
Bronfman Philanthropies
CAF–Development Bank of Latin
America
Ambassador Paul L. Cejas
W. Edmund Clark
Timothy C. Collins
ConocoPhillips
Howard Cox
Alan and Lauren Dachs
Daimler
George A. David
The Davis Foundation
Deloitte LLP
Feng Deng
Steve and Roberta Denning
Paul Desmarais, Jr.
Dubai Cares
Alfred and Gail Engelberg
European Union
Alfonso Fanjul
FedEx Corporation
Raj Fernando
Fiat
Fidelity Investments
David and Marianna Fisher
The Lee and Juliet Folger Fund
Mark T. Gallogly and
Elizabeth B. Strickler
GE
Pablo R. González
Good Ventures
The George Gund Foundation
Hess Corporation
Pete Higgins
Investcorp International Inc.
Investment Company Institute
The Jenesis Group
KAIST (Korea Advanced Institute
for Science and Technology)
Kaye Family Foundation
Samer Khoury
Richard A. Kimball, Jr.
Embassy of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands
Nemir Kirdar
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
Lear Corporation
Lenovo Group Limited
Andrónico Luksic
Markle Foundation
Mars, Incorporated
The MasterCard Foundation
The McKnight Foundation
MetLife, Inc.
Microsoft Corporation
Eric M. Mindich
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc.
Northrop Grumman Corporation
Occidental Petroleum Corporation
PepsiCo
Richard Perry
Victor Pinchuk Foundation
Pioneer Natural Resources
Ploughshares Fund
RBC Capital Markets
Repsol Foundation
Rio Tinto
Stephen Robert
Charles W. Robinson
Wilbur and Hilary Ross
Rob Roy, Switch
Victoria and Roger Sant
The Sasakawa Peace Foundation
Peter L. Scher
Eric E. Schmidt
Tokyo Sexwale
Shell
Siemens Corporation
The Starr Foundation
State Street Corporation
Tom Steyer and Kat Taylor
John Templeton Foundation
Peter A. Thiel
Lynn Thoman and the Leon
Lowenstein Foundation
Time Warner, Inc.
Toyota
UN University World Institute
for Development Economics
Research
Verizon Communications
Visa Inc.
Jeffrey C. Walker
John Hazen White, Jr.
Tracy R. Wolstencroft
Xcoal Energy & Resources
Poju Zabludowicz, Tamares Real
Estate Holdings
Adil Zainulbhai
Lei Zhang
Ezra K. Zilkha
D.B. Zwirn Foundation
38 39
Honor Roll of Contributors
$50,000–$99,999
Anonymous (2)
All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd.
Martin Neil Baily
Rahul Bajaj
Banco Sabadell
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Alan and Jane Batkin
Hakeem Belo-Osagie
Blackstone Charitable Foundation
Booz Allen Hamilton
Crandall C. Bowles
Bruhn-Morris Family Foundation
The Morris and Gwendolyn
Cafritz Foundation
Abby Joseph Cohen
H. Rodgin Cohen
Jonathan E. Colby
Development Initiatives Poverty
Research Ltd.
Deborah L. Duncan
eBay Inc.
Embassy of France
Mimi Frankel, Frankel Family
Foundation
Mitzi and Cyrus Freidheim
Stephen Freidheim
Bart Friedman and
Wendy A. Stein
Ann M. Fudge
Victor and William Fung
Foundation
Jeffrey A. Goldstein
Graham Capital Management
Andrew Gundlach, Anna-Maria
and Stephen Kellen Foundation
William A. Haseltine
The Heinz Endowments
Hewlett-Packard Company
Hitachi Foundation
HSBC Holdings plc
Indra
The Israel Institute
James A. Johnson
Tom Kaplan, Wolfgang Puck Fine
Dining Group
George A. Kellner
Tawfic Khoury
Korea International Trade
Association (KITA)
Ned Lamont
Laredo Petroleum, Inc.
Lennar Urban
Dan W. Lufkin, Peter Jay Sharp
Foundation
Philip Mallinckrodt, The
Schroder Foundation
James J. Manzi
The James S. McDonnell
Foundation
Mid-America Regional Council
The MITRE Corporation
Mitsubishi Corporation (Americas)
The Leo Model Foundation
Jaime J. Montealegre
National Center for the Middle
Market
New Silk Route
Nihon Keizai Shimbun-sya
(NIKKEI)
Nomura Foundation
Richard Nye
The Olayan Group
Palantir Technologies
Pearson plc
The Peter G. Peterson Foundation
John G. Popp
Marian Puig
Thomas C. Ramey and
Perrin Ireland
Raytheon
Joseph L. Rice III
James D. Robinson III
Christopher Rokos
George Rowe
Sabancı University
San Diego Regional Economic
Development Corporation
Jonathan Schaffzin
Amy Schulman
Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association
William A. Shutzer
Charles Sirois
Standard Chartered Bank
The Stupski Foundation
Krishen Sud
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
Taconic Capital Advisors LP
Nelson Talbott Foundation
Tata Group of companies
Ercument Tokat
Tudor Investment Corporation
United Nations Office for the
Coordinator of Humanitarian
Affairs
United Technologies Corporation
Bernard van Leer Foundation
Marcus Wallenberg, Foundation
Asset Management (FAM)
Claude Wasserstein
Beatrice W. and Anthony Welters
The Western Union Company
Ariel and Adam Zurofsky
$25,000–$49,999
Anonymous (3)
Allen & Company LLC
American Express
Aramco Services Company
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ, Ltd.
Rex J. Bates
Heinrich Böll Foundation
The Brodsky Family Foundation
CitiMortgage
The Civic Council of Greater
Kansas City
The Coca-Cola Company
The Council for the United
States and Italy
Cummins Inc.
Kenneth W. Dam
Edith B. Everett
FutureWorld Foundation
GEICO
Greenberg Traurig LLP
Brian L. and Myra S. Greenspun
and the Greenspun Family
Foundation
Huntington Ingalls Industries
Institute for American Values
Intesa Sanpaolo
Frank F. Islam
Johnson & Johnson
Betsy Karel
Peter Kimmelman
Daniel Levine
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Robert E. Marks
Marsh & McLennan Companies,
Inc.
Marubeni America Corporation
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
America, Inc.
Morgan Stanley
Mario M. Morino
National Endowment for the Arts
Sarah and Peter O’Hagan
Lisa O’Kelly
The Alexander S. Onassis Public
Benefit Foundation (USA)
Samuel Pisar
James E. Rogers
Arthur N. Rupe Foundation
Sanofi US
Leonard D. Schaeffer
Software & Information Industry
Association
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corporation
Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company
A. Alfred Taubman
United Nations Foundation
Varkey GEMS Foundation
Enzo Viscusi, Eni S.p.A.
Mallory Walker
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family
Foundation, Inc.
The World Bank Group
Daniel H. Yergin and Angela Stent
$10,000–$24,999
Anonymous (2)
Liaquat and Meena Ahamed
Province of Alberta, Canada
American Society of Clinical
Oncology
Eileen A. Aptman
The Loreen Arbus Foundation
Arnhold Foundation
Elizabeth E. Bailey
Joanne Barker
Daniel Berger
Anders Brag
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation
Paul Britton
Carter Cafritz
Conrad Cafritz
Caterpillar Inc.
Central Compilation and
Translation Bureau
Cerner Corporation
The Commonwealth Fund
Control Risks
Everett R. Cook
Corning Incorporated Foundation
Arthur B. Culvahouse, Jr.
The Curtis Family Foundation
David E. R. Dangoor
Anthony and Darian Downs
Kenneth M. Duberstein
Emerson
R. S. Evans Foundation
Facebook
Nick Farmer
Roger C. Faxon
Lawrence K. Fish
David Friend
John L. Furth
General Motors Foundation
Donna Gerstenfeld
Goldman Sachs
Patrick W. and Sheila Proby Gross
Agnes Gund
The Harris Family Foundation
June R. Hechinger
Honda North America, Inc.
Joel Hyatt
ITOCHU International Inc.
Douglas M. Kaden
Joel and Ricki Kanter
Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation
James C. Kautz
Bill Kayser
Lee Klingenstein
Marie L. Knowles
Robert and Arlene Kogod
KPMG LLP
Toby Devan Lewis
Linklaters LLP, on behalf of the
Advancing Good Governance
in International Development
Seminar
Gordon Litwin and Anne Luzzatto
LMI Government Consulting
Daniel S. Loeb
Malcolm R. and Celia Lovell
Bertil P. Lundqvist
Frederic V. Malek
Michael L. Martell, Morrison
Cohen LLP
Edward and Dale Mathias
McGraw Hill Financial
Arjay Miller
Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.
James J. Murren
Northern Trust
NTT Corp.
George F. Ohrstrom
Ono, Inc.
Geryl T. Pearl
George L. Perry
Steven Pifer
Robert C. Pozen
Frederic A. and Susan Rubinstein
William R. Salomon
Shimizu Corporation
Stanley S. Shuman
Steven J. Simmons
Skoll Centre for Global
Entrepreneurship
Emily and Robert E. Smith
Sojitz Foundation
James E. Staley
Andrew and Patricia Steffan
Michael A. Steinberg
Michael Sternberg
Sumitomo Corporation of America
Paul and Chandler Tagliabue
Larry D. Thompson
Michael L. Tipsord
Toshiba America, Inc.
Ranvir Trehan
Trend Micro
Paul Verbinnen and
Cecilia Greene
VOX Global
Seymour and Kathleen Weingarten
John C. Whitehead
Stephen M. Wolf
Xerox Corporation
$5,000–$9,999
Anonymous
Amsterdam International Institute
for Development
Battushig Batbold
Steffi and Robert Berne
Robert O. and Sylvia Blake
Boise State University
Zoë Baird Budinger and
William Budinger
William M. Cameron
Ellen Chesler and
Matthew J. Mallow
Linda S. Daines
Charles W. Duncan, Jr.
Elinor K. Farquhar
Flatiron Strategies
Nancy M. Folger
Forum for the Future of Higher
Education
Leslie I. Gold, Ph.D.
Susan and John Gutfreund
Steve and Sheila Hamp
Cynthia R. Helms
Information Technology Industry
Council
Nicholas Jakobson
James M. Kemper
Donald A. King Jr.
The Lewin Group, Inc.
Allison Nathan
Newsdesk Media
Betty Ann Ottinger
James and Theodore Pedas
Family Foundation
Marie Ridder
Robert J.T. Rosenfeld
James Philip Rubin
Frederick Stavis
Margaret L. Tomlinson
United Nations Economic
Commission for Africa
John Usdan
Josh S. Weston
Randall White
Malcolm H. Wiener
Up to $4,999
Anonymous (6)
Fred Altman
Louise Arias
Asian Development Bank Institute
Anders Aslund
Harley D. Balzer
William Horton Beebe-Center
Steven J. Bennett
Marion Bestani
John Beyrle
Erik Blumenkranz
Craig Brenner
Jerry Brookings
Adem Bunkeddeko
Theodore Bunzel
Louis W. Cabot
Embassy of Canada
Jacqueline Carter
Samuel G. Charap
Katherine Clark Harris
Roberta Cohen
William T. Coleman, Jr.
Lewis Collens
Cheryl Costa
The Morton and Dinah Danseyar
Family Foundation
Jill Dougherty
Spencer Edge
Mboh Elango
Elliott Company of Indianapolis,
Inc.
Pierre Estey
Lisa Frenkiel
Ellen V. Futter
Toby Gati
Ted and Rachel Gayer
Elisa B. Glazer
Gwendolyn Goffe
David B. Golder
Theresa Grimison
Marion Guggenheim
Henry E. Hale
Chester Hall
Henry Heilbrunn
Nancy Maisto Hewett
Steedman Hinckley
Nathan Hultman
Kent Insley
Donald Jensen
Vernon E. Jordan, Jr.
John Josinger
Catherine Kelleher
Thomas L. Kempner
Douglas Kiessling
Christopher Kiple
Llona Kitzing
Andrew Klaber
Dan Klausing
Christopher S. Koza
Alan Kritzler
Dan Henry Lee III
Wayne P. Limberg
Eric Lohr
Bruce K. and Virginia N. MacLaury
Jeffrey Marlough
Zachary Marshall
Daniel Martinez
Donald F. McHenry
Thomas F. McLarty
Kara Ramirez Mullins and
Sean F. Mullins
Sakura Namioka
Diana Negroponte
Vijay Nilekani
Robert C. Nurick
Tamara O’Neil
Robert Orttung
Samuel Plimpton
Presidency and Executive Politics
Section of the American
Political Science Association
Helen Raffel
Peter B. Reddaway
Mustafa S. Riffat
Richard Ringelstetter
Robertson Foundation for
Government, Inc.
Blair Ruble
B. Francis Saul II
Henry B. Schacht
Erin Schaffner
Robert Schulz
Jennifer Scully Lerner
Kristina A. Server
Alvin Sherman
Henry Silver
Anne Snouck-Hurgronje
Edwin Soforenko Foundation
Marjorie H. Sonnenfeldt
Robert M. Weekley
Frank A. Weil
Robert Weinberger
Shannon and Paul Wolfe
D. Kenneth Woodard
Brookings strives to be complete
and accurate in recognizing the
generous support of our donors.
We regret any omissions or errors.
41
40
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
Years Ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands)
Preliminary and Unaudited*
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
As of June 30, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands)
Preliminary and Unaudited*
Operating Revenues Program Services Expenses
31%
Foreign Policy
23%
Economic Studies
9%
Governance Studies
14%
Global Economy and
Development
16%
Metropolitan Policy Program
4%
Publications
86%
2%
10%
Endowment
Gifts and Grants
Miscellaneous
Publications
3%
Communications
2%
Notes:
As a nonprofit and scientific organization, ­
Brookings is exempt from federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code. The Institution also qualifies as a publicly supported organization under section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) of the code.
Brookings policy is to make an annual investment spending allocation for the support of operations. This amount is calculated
based on 70% of the prior year’s spending adjusted for inflation and 30% of 5% of the market value of the investments as of
December 31 of the prior fiscal year. Certain reclassifications of prior year balances have been made to conform to the current year
­presentation.
*
A copy of the Institution’s audited financial statements is available by request.
2014 TOTAL 2013 TOTAL
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents $ 41,849 $ 29,465
Grants, contributions and accounts receivable, net 90,492 100,680
Inventory 278 340
Investments 321,910 286,847
Property and equipment, net 39,714 43,094
Other assets 1,755 2,205
TOTAL ASSETS 495,998 462,631
Liabilities and Net Assets
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 7,116 10,323
Bonds payable and lines of credit 40,659 42,221
Accrued compensated leave 1,810 1,689
Accrued post-retirement benefit obligation 2,084 2,148
Deferred revenue 1,112 2,030
TOTAL LIABILITIES 52,781 58,411
Net Assets
Unrestricted 212,657 186,151
Temporarily restricted 148,721 142,468
Permanently restricted 81,839 75,601
TOTAL NET ASSETS 443,217 404,220
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS $495,998 $462,631
UNRESTRICTED
TEMPORARILY
RESTRICTED
PERMANENTLY
RESTRICTED
FY 2014
TOTAL
FY 2013
TOTAL
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Revenue and Support
Investment return designated for operations $ 10,202 $  3,261 – $ 13,463 $ 12,996
Grants, contracts, and contributions 14,720 68,768 $ 6,238 89,726 80,277
Brookings Press 1,829 – – 1,829 1,716
Facility and other revenue 2,563 (19) – 2,544 2,574
Net assets released from restrictions—
Satisfaction of program restrictions
71,639 (71,639) – – –
Total Operating Revenue 100,953 371 6,238 107,562 97,563
OPERATING EXPENSES
Program Services
Economic Studies 17,191 – – 17,191 14,740
Foreign Policy 22,907 – – 22,907 19,926
Global Economy and Development 10,554 – – 10,554 9,587
Governance Studies 6,846 – – 6,846 6,691
Metropolitan Policy Program 11,951 – – 11,951 12,513
Other Research 160 – – 160 535
Brookings Press 2,565 – – 2,565 2,775
Communications 2,388 – – 2,388 2,275
Total Program Services 74,562 – – 74,562 69,042
Supporting Services
Management and General 20,960 – – 20,960 21,571
Fundraising 3,462 – – 3,462 2,901
Total Operating Expenses 98,984 – – 98,984 93,514
Net Operating Activity 1,969 371 6,238 8,578 4,049
Change in net assets before non-operating
activities 1,969 371 6,238 8,578 4,049
NON-OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Investment return in excess of amounts
designated for operations
Realized gain (loss) on sale of investments 8,297 2,192 – 10,489 10,978
Unrealized gain (loss) from investments 26,151 5,882 – 32,033 18,915
Interest and dividends, net 227 1,069 – 1,296 1,809
Investment return designated for operations (10,202) (3,261) – (13,463) (12,996)
Total investment return (loss) in excess of
amounts designated for operations 24,473 5,882 – 30,355 18,706
Total Non-Operating Activities 24,473 5,882 – 30,355 18,706
Change in net assets before post-retirement
related changes other than net periodic post-
retirement benefit cost 26,442 6,253 6,238 38,933 22,755
Post-retirement related changes other than net
periodic post-retirement pension cost 64 – – 64 157
CHANGE IN NET ASSETS 26,506 6,253 6,238 38,997 22,912
Net assets, Beginning of year 186,151 142,468 75,601 404,220 381,308
Net assets, End of year $212,657 $148,721 $81,839 $443,217 $404,220
42
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
● ●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
Washington
●
●
●●
●
●
●
●
★
●
●
●
●
●
●●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
● ●
● ●
●
● ●
●
●
● ●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
By the Numbers
Brookings
July 1, 2013–June 30, 2014
Copyright © 2014 The Brookings Institution
1775 Massachusetts Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
Telephone: 202.797.6000
Fax: 202.797.6004
www.brookings.edu
Vice President for Institutional Advancement and External Relations: Kimberly Churches
Editors: Robert Moore and Jessica Gibbs
Design and Print Production: McMurry/TMG
Jeffrey Kibler, Adriana Guevara, Brenda Waugh
Printing: Chroma Graphics
Cover Photography: Cameron Davidson
#
1 hhhh
Rank in the
University of
Pennsylvania’s
2013 “Global
Go-To Think
Tank Index”
including Best
Managed
Charity
Navigator
rating
4 years
running
and
100%
rating for
Acccountability
and
Transparency
196
Countries
where Margaret
McMillan’s
Brookings
Essay, “The
Rhyme of History,”
was read at least
once
1,428,664
Total followers
of the
154
Brookings
scholars
on Twitter
50
Books
published
by the Brookings
Press, including
7digital-only
titles
226
Public events
24
Times Brookings
scholars
testified
before
Congressional
committees
AA-
Brookings’s
upgraded
credit
rating from
Standard and
Poor’s
Brookings’s Global Reach
Brookings works with a range of NGOs, think tanks, universities, and other organizations
around the world to advance sound policymaking and effective governance.
$
600
million
Second
Century
Campaign
goal
Please consider the Brookings Institution in your estate plans to ensure
our quality, independence and impact for many generations to come.
For more information, contact Kimberly Churches at
kchurches@brookings.edu.
