2012 Annual Report
Strengthening global security by
reducing the threats from nuclear,
biological and chemical weapons
B Nuclear Threat Initiative
Contents
1	 Nuclear Threat Initiative
2 	 Letter from the Co-Chairmen
6	 The Nuclear Threat
16	 The Biological Threat	
20	 Educating the Public
24	 2012 Financial Information
25	Funders
26	 Board of Directors and Advisors
28	 NTI Staff
1
2012 Annual Report
Nuclear Threat Initiative
The Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan
organization with a mission to strengthen global security by
reducing the risk of use and preventing the spread of nuclear,
biological and chemical weapons. Founded in 2001 by former
U.S. Senator Sam Nunn and CNN founder Ted Turner, NTI is
guided by an international board of directors.
NTI works on closing the gap between the global threats from nuclear, biological and
chemical weapons and the global response to those threats. Recognizing that governments
have most of the resources and authority in the large-scale work of threat reduction, NTI
emphasizes leverage—our success depends not only on what we do, but also on what we can
persuade others to do.
That’s why, since our founding in 2001, NTI has set out to lead the way in threat reduction,
not simply point the way. By designing and implementing our own projects to directly reduce
threats, NTI demonstrates how governments can reduce threats faster, smarter and on a large
scale.
The organization’s activities are directed by Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sam
Nunn and President Joan Rohlfing and informed by leading figures in science, business and
international security who serve as advisors and members of NTI’s board of directors.
2 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Letter from the Co-Chairmen
From the Nuclear Security Summit in Seoul to a Senate hearing
room in Washington, NTI’s leaders and experts brought nuclear
and biological dangers—and workable solutions—to the fore in
2012. There is always much more to do, but we are heartened by
progress on our global mission.
The year began with the January release of the NTI Nuclear Materials Security Index, a
first-of-its-kind public assessment of nuclear materials security conditions in 176 countries.
Developed with the Economic Intelligence Unit, the NTI Index evaluated countries against
a set of critical indicators, analyzed the results to identify security gaps and offered
recommendations for individual governments and the global community.
NTI released the NTI Nuclear
Materials Security Index,
a first-of-its-kind public
assessment of nuclear
materials security conditions
in 176 countries.
At the Nuclear Security
Summit in Seoul, NTI
President Joan Rohlfing
led a plenary of industry
leaders to address their role
in nuclear safety and security.
NTI launched a Global
Dialogue on Nuclear Security
Priorities, which seeks to
influence and raise the level
of ambition for the outcomes
of the 2014 Nuclear Security
Summit and the important
continuing effort to secure
dangerous materials.
2012 Highlights
3
2012 Annual Report
The NTI Index fills a critical gap by tracking
global progress on nuclear materials
security and helping policymakers address
weaknesses, using a common global
vocabulary and a consistent approach.
It was a bold project. Some countries don’t
like having their security scored or their
nations ranked, but the report was received
with seriousness and respect, even among
countries that did not score well. Many
countries subsequently came forward to
address needed improvements, which is the
fundamental purpose of the Index.
The release of the report was covered by
news organizations around the world. NTI
staff traveled to Beijing, Geneva, London,
Moscow, New Delhi, Seoul, Sydney and
Vienna and met with key government
officials, experts and the news media to
present the Index, discuss recommendations
and get feedback on our approach. The
feedback from governments has been
overwhelmingly positive, and some
countries have reached out confidentially
to NTI for guidance on improving security.
The critiques, for the most part, have been
helpful, and we have made adjustments.
While governments deserve the credit, a little
more than one year later, we can report clear
progress: Five countries—Austria, the Czech
NTI Co-Chairman and CEO Sam Nunn
presents the NTI Nuclear Materials Security
Index at a press conference.
The Verification Pilot Project
began tackling the technical
and practical challenges of
how to verify that a country is
securing, controlling, reducing
or eliminating nuclear weapons
and materials.
NTI proposed new strategies
for security cooperation
among the United States,
Russia and Europe, through
high-level outreach, including
the May North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) Summit
and a new report, Building
Mutual Security in the Euro-
Atlantic Region.
One of our signature
biosecurity projects, CORDS
(Connecting Organizations for
Regional Disease Surveillance),
which NTI founded and
nurtured, was “spun off”
as an independent global
organization in late 2012 and
is moving forward boldly.
4 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Republic, Mexico, Ukraine and Vietnam—
have eliminated all weapons-usable nuclear
material from their territories. Thirteen more
countries reduced their stockpiles. China and
India, for the first time, contributed to the
Nuclear Security Fund at the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which
assists states in preventing, detecting and
responding to nuclear terrorism. When
nations are taking steps to improve security
that they’ve never taken before, we’re
moving in the right direction.
Nunn and Lugar Honored
A high point of the year came in December—
two decades after President George H. W.
Bush signed legislation launching the
Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction
Program. To mark the anniversary, the U.S.
Department of Defense awarded Nunn and
NTI Board Member Richard Lugar its highest
civilian honor, the Distinguished Public
Service Award. President Barack Obama and
then–Defense Secretary Leon Panetta hailed
the men during a ceremony at National
Defense University and praised the Nunn-
Lugar program as a critical part of U.S. efforts
to reduce the threat of weapons of mass
destruction.
New Board Members
Welcomed
NTI’s future work will be enhanced by six
eminently capable individuals who have
joined our board of directors. We welcome
Lord Browne of Ladyton, a Member of the
House of Lords and former Secretary of State
for Defense in the United Kingdom; Michael
Douglas, the Academy Award–winning actor
and producer who has been a vital voice
on nuclear nonproliferation; Professor Liru
Cui, Senior Advisor to the Chinese Institute
of Contemporary International Relations;
Ambassador Riaz Mohammad Khan, former
Foreign Secretary of Pakistan; Sir Malcolm
Rifkind, who has served in the United
Kingdom as Secretary of State for Defense
and Foreign Secretary; and Ellen O. Tauscher,
former U.S. Under Secretary of State for
Arms Control and International Security and
seven-term Member of Congress.
And with your Nuclear Threat Initiative, you helped us ratify
the New START treaty, rally the world to secure nuclear materials,
strengthen the global nonproliferation regime, and create an
international fuel bank for peaceful nuclear power.”
President Barack Obama
President Obama honors Richard Lugar and
Sam Nunn for their work to reduce nuclear
threats.
5
2012 Annual Report
Get Up to Speed  Subscribe to daily news updates from Global Security Newswire,
www.nti.org/subscribe.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
Everybody now knows NTI, and everybody now appreciates
very much what they have been doing, and what I hope they will
continue to do with more vigor—because we need them more
than ever.”
Mohamed ElBaradei, former director-general, IAEA
Appreciation for Emeritus
Members
Seven of our board members—who joined
in the early days of NTI—moved to Emeritus
status. Each of these individuals brought
deep experience to the board and made
lasting contributions. We have greatly
benefited from their service and look
forward to their continued participation in
this new status. The emeritus members are
Pete Domenici, Susan Eisenhower, Prince El
Hassan Bin Talal, William J. Perry, Nafis Sadik,
Amartya Sen and Shirley Williams.
What Can You Do?
Governments must take the lead on the
urgent work of reducing the risks of nuclear,
biological and chemical weapons. At the
same time, wherever we go, people ask,
“How can I help?” Private citizens do not
have to be spectators in security matters
that are crucial to us all. In this year’s annual
report, you’ll find actions that anyone can
take to make a difference on these critical
issues. We encourage all interested and
involved citizens to be part of the effort to
reduce these threats to our world.
We are grateful to our supporters, who
have put their faith in our organization.
In particular, we want to highlight the
generosity of long-time funders Warren
Buffett, Carnegie Corporation of New York,
the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation, Peter G. Peterson Foundation
and George Russell. We are honored to
have won your trust, and we hope to keep
working with you to build a safer world.
Ted Turner
Co-Chairman
Sam Nunn
Co-Chairman
Emeritus board members are honored for
their valuable service to NTI.
6 Nuclear Threat Initiative
The Nuclear Threat
New countries seeking nuclear weapons ...
Fraying relations between the world’s two
largest nuclear powers ... Challenges to
responding to emerging nuclear threats in
Iran and North Korea ... Continued evidence
that terrorist groups seek weapons of mass
destruction ... The potential for devastation
caused by miscalculation, accidental
launch or cyberthreats ...
7
2012 Annual Report
Despite progress in reducing nuclear weapons
stocks and increased focus on securing vulnerable
nuclear materials, nuclear dangers remain all too
real—more than two decades after the end of the
Cold War.
The consequences of an accident, confrontation
or terrorist attack would reverberate around the
globe, with tens or hundreds of thousands of
casualties, disruptions to markets and commerce,
long-term implications for public health and the
environment, and risks to civil liberties—not to
mention the staggering cost of response.
To reduce the threat of such a catastrophe, NTI
designs and implements innovative, ground-
breaking projects that directly reduce risks and
demonstrate new paths for governments as they
work to address existing and emerging threats.
Nuclear
News 2012
World leaders gather in
Seoul for the second
summit focused on
securing vulnerable nuclear
materials against theft or
sale on the black market.
Leaders gathered in
Chicago for the NATO
Summit make little progress
in defining a clear strategy
for changing the nuclear
status quo and eliminating
tactical nuclear weapons
deployed in Europe.
Three activists infiltrate
the Y-12 National Security
Complex, called one of
the most secure nuclear-
weapons facilities in the
United States. The plant
suspends all atomic
activities and mandates
personnel retraining.
Iran continues its
enrichment program,
despite crippling sanctions.
After a failed rocket launch
in April, North Korea
successfully launches
a long-range rocket in
December and continues
its nuclear weapons
program.
8 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Addressing the Nuclear
Materials Security Threat—
Progress Encouraging
In April 2010, shortly after President Obama
and President Dmitry Medvedev of Russia
signed the New START Treaty in Prague,
President Obama welcomed to Washington
37 heads of state and delegations from
47 countries for the first Nuclear Security
Summit—an effort to reduce the threat of
nuclear terrorism by securing all vulnerable
nuclear material, globally.
That first summit and the second summit
two years later in Seoul put an important
international spotlight on the risks created by
vulnerable nuclear materials. We commend
this important effort, and the progress has
been encouraging. The challenge is to build
a global consensus on how best to secure
the materials and sustain progress.
Nuclear Materials Security Index
Recognizing the danger from the lack of
a widely accepted security baseline, NTI
worked with the Economist Intelligence Unit
on a first-of-its-kind public assessment of
The edgy ranking is a joint endeavor of the Nuclear Threat
Initiative … and the Economist Intelligence Unit .... Their goals
are to stir debate on how to promote security and to encourage
governments to strengthen protections against atomic terrorism.”
The New York Times
CNN interviews Sam Nunn after the release
of the NTI Nuclear Materials Security Index.
Building a Framework for Assurance,
Accountability, and Action
January 2012
Index developed with
ear MaTerIals
rITy INdex
NTI) Nuclear Materials Security Index is a
arking project of nuclear materials security
untry basis. The NTI Index, prepared with
t (EIU) with guidance from an international
to spark an international discussion about
n security and, most important, encourage
ances and take actions to reduce risks.
w.ntiindex.org
nternational panel oF experts:
isely … there’s much truth they can
that they may not agree with what the
n something about where the world
Professor of Physics, Jawaharlal Nehru University;
hair, International Panel on Fissile Materials (IPFM)
t areas where there’s significant work to
discussion going about prioritization.”
Bunn, Associate Professor of Public Policy, Belfer
ience and International Affairs, Harvard University
so powerful is that countries will want
s.… To do that, they’ll have to be more
cutive Director, World Institute for Nuclear Security
venth Floor | Washington, DC 20006 | www.nti.org
nti
nuclear
materials
security
index
for more information, visit www.ntiindex.org
nUCLeAR THReAT iniTiATiVe
86
selected Country summaries
aBoVe aVerage (scores greater than 66) aVerage (scores between 34 and 66)
Below aVerage (scores less than 34)
aUsTRalIa
score / 100 rank / 32
oVerall score 94 1
1) QUanTITIes & sITes 96 =1
2) seCURITy & ConTRol
MeasURes 100 =1
3) Global noRMs 92 6
4) DoMesTIC CoMMITMenTs
& CaPaCITy 100 =1
5) soCIeTal faCToRs 81 =5
“=” denotes tied rank
Scored 0–100 where 100=most favorable nuclear materials security
conditions
Pervasiveness of corruption 100
Independent regulatory agency 100
safeguards adoption and compliance 100
Domestic nuclear materials security legislation 100
UnsCR 1540 implementation 100
nuclear security and materials transparency 100
voluntary commitments 100
Response capabilities 100
Physical security during transport 100
security personnel measures 100
Control and accounting procedures 100
on-site physical protection 100
Material production / elimination trends 100
sites and transportation 100
Quantities of nuclear materials 88
Political stability 85
International legal commitments 80
Group(s) interested in illicitly acquiring materials 50
Quantities & Sites
Security &
Control
Measures
Societal
Factors
Global Norms
Domestic
Commitments &
Capacity
Index Average
Australia
0
25
50
75
100
nUCLeAR THReAT iniTiATiVe
12
Map and Results Tables
countries included in tHe nti indeX
Countries with weapons-usable nuclear materials
Countries without weapons-usable nuclear materials
www.ntiindex.org 13
Map and Results Tables
The NTI Nuclear Materials Security Index includes findings, country profiles and recommendations. On the
website—www.ntiindex.org—visitors can explore interactive maps and download the report.
9
2012 Annual Report
nuclear materials security conditions on a
country-by-country basis. The data-driven
report assessed security conditions in 176
countries and offered recommendations
on how individual countries could tighten
security and how the international
community could build a global nuclear
materials security system. News media from
around the world, including The New York
Times, covered the release of the report. NTI
experts testified on the results before a U.S.
Senate committee and briefed government
officials, international experts and the press
worldwide.
In the year since the NTI Index was released,
a number of countries took clear steps
to reduce the threat of nuclear terrorism
and illicit trafficking, with five countries
completely eliminating all weapons-usable
nuclear material from their territories. Several
countries contacted NTI to ask for advice on
how to improve security.
2012 Seoul Nuclear Security Summit
The Nuclear Security Summits are held for
government officials, but related events are
also held for industry and experts, and NTI
staff played important roles.
NTI President Joan Rohlfing moderated
a plenary session for 200 industry
representatives attending the concurrent
Nuclear Industry Summit. Rohlfing and
Corey Hinderstein, vice president for NTI’s
international program, served as advisors to
the Republic of Korea. Page Stoutland, NTI’s
vice president for nuclear materials security,
presented the NTI Index to the Seoul Nuclear
Security Symposium, a concurrent event
with experts from about 50 countries. John
Carlson, NTI counselor, presented a paper at
the same symposium.
In addition, Korea’s KFN-TV aired NTI’s
Nuclear Tipping Point multiple times,
reaching a national audience in advance of
the Summit.
Creating a Dialogue for Action
Today, there is no agreed global system for
how nuclear materials should be secured.
Existing guidelines and agreements for
securing the materials have major gaps,
and countries consider materials security
a sovereign responsibility and not a shared
one. Because of this, there are no common
standards, no expectation that countries
should share information about their security
practices and no culture of accountability.
This means that there is no effective basis for
measuring progress, assessing each others’
NTI President Joan Rohlfing moderates
a plenary session at the Nuclear Industry
Summit in Seoul.
Share  Become part of NTI’s Facebook community and share news and updates. Visit
www.facebook.com/nti.org.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
continued on page 11
10 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Working Toward a World without
Nuclear Weapons
Six years ago, in a Wall Street Journal op-ed that startled the world,
former Secretary of State George P. Shultz, former Secretary
of Defense William J. Perry, former Secretary of State Henry A.
Kissinger and former Senator Sam Nunn joined together to call
for reducing reliance on nuclear weapons globally and ultimately
ending them as a threat to the world. The same year, the four
statesmen formed the Nuclear Security Project (NSP) to press
their agenda worldwide. NTI serves as coordinator of the NSP, in
cooperation with Stanford University’s Hoover Institution.
Much of NTI’s nuclear activities support NSP
goals, including the Euro-Atlantic security
strategy and the Verification Pilot Project.
The NSP also supports policy research
conducted by think tanks worldwide. In
addition, the initiative has inspired new
global networks—senior political, military,
diplomatic and scientific leaders, all working
toward a world without nuclear weapons
and the essential steps to get there:
›
› The Asia Pacific Leadership Network
issued major statements in 2012
on nuclear security, transparency and
reducing nuclear risk.
›
› The European Leadership Network issued
a series of papers for the 2012 NATO
Summit highlighting perspectives from
a variety of NATO countries. They also
released a statement calling on leaders in
Europe, Russia and the United States to
recommit to the conditions for a world
without nuclear weapons.
›
› Two new leadership networks began
forming in 2012. The Latin American
Leadership Network launched in 2013, and
the NSP is forming a new network in the
United States.
These groups of diverse leaders are building
greater momentum for a world without
nuclear weapons and helping support the
technical and policy steps to achieve it.
Sam Nunn, William J. Perry and George P. Shultz
discuss The Partnership, a new book about their
work, with author Philip Taubman.
11
2012 Annual Report
security or holding countries accountable
where security is lax.
Because the consequences of poorly
secured material are global, everyone has a
major stake in each others’ performance.
That’s why NTI launched the Global Dialogue
on Nuclear Security Priorities, which works
to build a strengthened and comprehensive
global system for tracking, accounting for,
managing and securing all weapons-usable
nuclear material. The dialogue is focused
on closing gaps in the existing patchwork
of agreements, guidelines and multilateral
engagement on materials security—building
confidence in the effectiveness of the
system. The NTI group includes government
officials, experts and representatives from
industry and international organizations, as
well as “Sherpas,” who are preparing their
heads of state for the 2014 Nuclear Security
Summit.
Building Mutual Security in the
Euro-Atlantic Region
Security policies across the Euro-Atlantic
region remain on Cold War autopilot,
needlessly raising risks and costs for defense
and contributing to tensions and mistrust.
The chance of catastrophic terrorism, an
accident or a mistake leading to devastation
continues to loom, given the large quantities
of weapons of mass destruction and
dangerous materials located in the region.
Yet outdated security concepts undermine
efforts to build security and trust and require
significant national investments at a time of
unprecedented austerity.
In early 2012, Sam Nunn, NTI Board Member
and former Russian Foreign Minister Igor
Ivanov and former German Ambassador to
the United States Wolfgang Ischinger issued
a report outlining recommendations for
strategic cooperation between Russia, the
United States and Europe. Their work on
Host  Order a copy of the movie Nuclear Tipping Point, make some popcorn and host
a screening. Use the discussion guide at www.nucleartippingpoint.org.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
Governments are becoming more aware of the threat …. But
there is no consensus on best practices for tracking and securing
the critical fuel for nuclear bombs. It’s a job the world must do
better.”
Newsday editorial
Participants in NTI’s Global Dialogue consider
how to build international assurances to
ensure security of weapons-usable nuclear
materials.
12 Nuclear Threat Initiative
economic, political and security matters—
the Euro-Atlantic Security Initiative (EASI)—
was launched by the Carnegie Endowment
for Peace under the leadership of NTI Board
Member Jessica Mathews.
To explore the EASI recommendations for
building regional trust and security in depth,
Nunn, Ischinger and Ivanov, joined by NTI
Board Member and Member of Parliament
Des Browne, then convened more than 30
top military, political and security experts
from Europe, Russia and the United States.
The group concluded that today’s leaders
should move decisively and permanently
toward a new security strategy through
a politically mandated dialogue and an
integrated approach to the full range of
security issues, including nuclear forces,
missile defense, prompt-strike forces,
conventional forces, cybersecurity and
space. Their recommendations are included
in Building Mutual Security in the Euro-
Atlantic Region, released in early 2013.
Verifying a World without
Nuclear Weapons
NTI’s forward-looking Verification Pilot
Project is laying technical and policy
groundwork for further arms reductions by
the United States and Russia, as well as other
countries. The ability to verify that parties
to an agreement are meeting obligations
is critical to any nuclear arms agreement,
and NTI has successfully jumpstarted an
international dialogue on the subject.
More than 40 leading technical and
policy experts from a dozen countries are
examining challenges and opportunities
around verification of baseline inventories
of nuclear warheads and materials as well
as the necessary assurances needed by
the international community about the
process of verification in nuclear-armed
states. Participation includes countries that
have not previously been engaged in these
issues—building global capacity to hold
states accountable.
In addition to exploring how governments
can verify, monitor and enforce a nuclear
weapons–free world, the experts have
examined how citizens could help. Corey
Hinderstein and Kelsey Hartigan, both of
NTI, released a paper, “Societal Verification:
Leveraging the Information Revolution
for Arms Control Verification,” examining
how information from satellite imagery,
commercial trade data and even Facebook
posts or tweets could produce a sharper
picture of what a country is doing with its
nuclear arsenal.
Join  Sign up for NTI’s Safer World Action Network, for monthly updates. Visit
www.nti.org/subscribe.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
Building Mutual Security
in the Euro-Atlantic Region
REpoRt pREpAREd foR
Presidents, Prime Ministers, Parliamentarians, and Publics
Des Browne, European Leadership Network
Wolfgang Ischinger, Munich Security Conference
Igor Ivanov, Russian International Affairs Council
Sam Nunn, Nuclear Threat Initiative
2013
Укрепление взаимной безопасности
в евроатлантическом регионе
ДоклаД, поДготовленный Для
президентов, премьер-министров, парламентариев и общественности
Десмонд Браун, европейская сеть лидеров по вопросам многостороннего
ядерного разоружения и нераспространения
Вольфганг Ишингер, Мюнхенская конференция по вопросам безопасности
Игорь Иванов, Российский совет по международным делам
Сэм Нанн, Инициатива по сокращению ядерной угрозы
2013
The full Building Mutual Security in the Euro-Atlantic
Region report and a separate Co-Chairs’ Summary are
available in English and Russian.
13
2012 Annual Report
Reducing the Use of Highly
Enriched Uranium
Highly enriched uranium (HEU), a key
component of nuclear weapons, has
been used for decades to power research
reactors, produce medical isotopes and
fuel naval vessels. These uses increase
the demand for and transport of HEU and
heighten the risk that it could be stolen and
used by terrorists to build a nuclear weapon.
Today, technical developments have made
it possible to replace HEU with less risky
low-enriched uranium (LEU), which is not
usable in weapons. NTI has worked for
years to build an international consensus for
replacing HEU with LEU wherever possible.
In 2012, NTI co-hosted, with the
governments of Norway and Austria and in
partnership with the IAEA, an international
conference to bring together policy
specialists and technical experts to discuss
the process of replacing HEU with LEU
globally. The conference reinvigorated focus
on this issue, provided a forum for high-level
discussion on HEU minimization and led to
commitments made at the 2012 Nuclear
Security Summit in Seoul.
India and the Non-Proliferation
System
In 1968, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty (NPT) came into force. Non–nuclear
weapons states agreed not to acquire
weapons; nuclear weapons states pledged
to give them up over time. The NPT is the
world’s most important treaty for slowing the
spread of nuclear weapons and technology.
Today, 190 countries have signed the treaty.
India, Pakistan and South Sudan have not.
NTI is working to encourage countries
outside the NPT to join global efforts to
fight the spread of nuclear weapons and
materials. To that end, NTI and the Center
for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS)
Ambassador Jan Petersen, Permanent
Representative of Norway to the United
Nations in Vienna and former Minister of
Foreign Affairs, speaks at the international
HEU minimization conference.
There is an urgent need … to bring the movement for a nuclear
weapons free world back to global centre-stage.”
Asia Pacific Leadership Network Statement
a RepoRt of the WoRkIng gRoUp on an expanded non-pRolIfeRatIon SyStem
teReSIta SchaffeR with Joan Rohlfing November 2011
IndIa
non-prolIferatIon SyStem
IndIa
non-prolIferatIon SyStem
Ambassador
Teresita Schaffer
with NTI President
Joan Rohlfing co-
authored a report
recommending steps
to give India a more
active role in the
non-proliferation
system.
14 Nuclear Threat Initiative
formed the Working Group on an Expanded
Non-Proliferation System to define a system
that could integrate India. In 2010, the group,
which included NTI President Joan Rohlfing,
presented a formal recommendation: the
U.S. and Indian governments should work
to bring India into full membership in key
export control groups, which are vital
parts of the non-proliferation system. Five
months later, both governments endorsed
the proposal. The 2012 report, “India and
the Non-Proliferation System,” captured
the full set of recommendations designed
to give India a more active role in the non-
proliferation system.
NTI in Beijing
For the first time, NTI co-sponsored the PIIC
Beijing Seminar on International Security, the
premier international security conference
in China. The 2012 conference focused on
nuclear policy and coincided with NTI’s fall
2012 meeting of the board of directors, also
held in Beijing. Nunn and Perry gave keynote
remarks, and other NTI board members
and experts participated in the security
conference. Separately, the board met
with China’s Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi,
U.S. Ambassador Gary Locke and other
government and civil society leaders.
Write  Write your senator and congressional representative and urge them to support
programs to keep weapons of mass destruction out of the hands of terrorists.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
We can’t ignore our differences. … But the great tragedy would
be if we let the differences overwhelm our mutual interests.”
Sam Nunn, addressing the PIIC Beijing Seminar
Center for International Trade and
Security, University of Georgia
To support a workshop on “Expanding the
Scope of Nuclear Security Culture and
Developing Methodology for Evaluation,”
with a focus on the interface between safety
and security. $50,000
China Arms Control and Disarmament
Association
To organize an event on the NTI Nuclear
Materials Security Index with Chinese
security and foreign affairs experts. $3,000
Mongolian American Scientific Research
Center
To assess and establish nuclear infrastructure
in Mongolia, given its uranium resources; to
generate new and innovative approaches for
strengthening the global non-proliferation
regime. $125,000
Program on Science and National Security
Studies
To support the 13th PIIC Beijing Seminar on
International Security. $145,000
NTI Grants
15
2012 Annual Report
Centre for Economic and Foreign Policy
Studies (EDAM)
To produce policy papers and briefs on
Turkish nuclear policy; launch a website
on nuclear issues; and organize a regional
conference in the Middle East. $177,000
China Arms Control and Disarmament
Association
To support a research program on the
long-term development of nuclear energy
in China; a study on the role of nuclear
weapons and minimum deterrence; and a
study on nuclear transparency. $197,000
European Leadership Network
To build membership; create partnerships
with security and defense institutes; host
events; create a NATO-Russia task force
and a working group on Europe’s role in
nonproliferation and addressing nuclear
threats. $300,000
President and Fellows of Harvard College
To support a tabletop exercise organized
by the Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs. $50,000
Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies
To support trilateral conferences in China
among senior experts and scientists from
India, China and Pakistan on nuclear safety
and security following the Seoul Nuclear
Security Summit. $50,000
To support the Institute’s Nuclear Task
Force; convene a series of security-related
seminars; support capacity-building
programs for young scholars; maintain and
produce web and print materials. $100,000
Lowy Institute
To support a research program on strategic
stability and arms control in Asia, including
publications and outreach. $81,417
NPS Global Foundation
To support the development of a Latin
American Leadership Network. $199,400
PIR Center (Russian Center for Policy
Studies)
To educate a new generation of leaders
and support public awareness in Russia of
nuclear disarmament and strengthening of
nuclear security. $50,000
Polish Institute of International Affairs
(PISM)
To convene conferences and seminars, hold
senior-level consultations and produce
papers analyzing the Central and Eastern
European perspectives on the role of nuclear
weapons and missile defense in European
security. $199,718
The following NTI grants were related to the Nuclear Security Project.
Watch  NTI’s YouTube channel includes videos honoring key achievements in nuclear
policy. Visit www.nti.org and click on “video.”
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
16 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Gram-for-gram, biological weapons are the
deadliest weapons ever produced. While
few countries are suspected of maintaining
offensive biological weapons, rapidly
producing and weaponizing biological agents
is surprisingly easy. What’s more, it’s difficult
to tell the difference between legitimate and
harmful bio research.
The Biological Threat
17
2012 Annual Report
In the event of an infectious disease outbreak—
whether natural or intentional—thousands and
perhaps millions of lives could depend on how
quickly public health officials detect the outbreak,
diagnose the illness, communicate findings
and coordinate response. Success depends on
cooperation—especially today when travel and
trade are so widespread and terrorists can turn
diseases into weapons.
Recognizing that disease surveillance is a key
step in rapid detection and response, NTI set out
to create regional networks that can detect and
respond to a terrorist attack involving biological or
chemical agents. In 2004, we began supporting
regional disease surveillance networks first in
the Middle East, then in southern Africa and
Southeast Asia. Today, these and three more
regional networks form CORDS—Connecting
Organizations for Regional Disease Surveillance—
and are models for international cooperation
that foster true global dialogue and promote
solutions to complex issues around prevention
and response.
Biosecurity
News 2012
International H5N1 bird flu
research halted amid safety
and security concerns at
labs in the Netherlands and
United States.
India, once the global
epicenter of polio, is
declared polio-free for
more than a year, paving
the way for declaration of
eradication.
European Union prohibits
exports of select dual-
use products to Syria that
could be used to develop
chemical or biological
warfare agents.
World Health Organization
announces that 20 million
people are alive, thanks
to tuberculosis care and
treatment—but warns
that TB remains a major
infectious killer and efforts
to battle spread of the
disease are fragile.
South Korea announces
plans to ramp up bio-
defense systems to protect
against possible bio-terror
attack.
18 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Addressing the Biological
Threat
Coordinating Disease Surveillance
in the Middle East
NTI has worked since our founding to
prevent bioterrorism and improve health
security. In 2002, NTI brought together
public health officials from Israel, Jordan
and the Palestinian Authority to launch
MECIDS, the Middle East Consortium for
Infectious Disease Surveillance, to develop
regional approaches to prevent and respond
to disease outbreaks. MECIDS is a prime
example of effective data sharing and cross-
border collaboration against infectious
disease, and in 2012 NTI continued to
actively support the network.
Taking Regional Networks Global
The success of regional networks such
as MECIDS led to the 2009 formation of
CORDS, which incorporates MECIDS and
other regional networks into a “network
of networks.” The organization facilitates
cooperation, communication and best
practices among its member networks, the
World Health Organization and other global
partners. In 2012, NTI worked to establish
CORDS’s independence, and it is now a
stand-alone organization with significant
support from the Peter G. Peterson
Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Skoll
Global Threats Fund and Fondation Mérieux.
Emerging Health Threats Journal
A World United Against Infectious Diseases:
Connecting Organizations for Regional Disease Surveillance
Supplement 1, 2013
Co-Edited by Suwit Wibulpolprasert, Louise S. Gresham and Mark S. Smolinski
Creating a Global Dialogue on Infectious
Disease Surveillance: Connecting
Organizations for Regional Disease
Surveillance (CORDS)
Louise S. Gresham1
*, Mark S. Smolinski2
,
Rapeepong Suphanchaimat3
, Ann Marie Kimball4
and
Suwit Wibulpolprasert5
1
Fondation Merieux USA, Inc., United States; 2
Skoll Global Threats Fund, United States; 3
International Health
Policy Program, Ministry of Public Health, Thailand; 4
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, United States;
5
Office of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Public Health, Thailand
Connecting Organizations for Regional Disease Surveillance (CORDS) is an international non-governmental
organization focused on information exchange between disease surveillance networks in different areas of the
world. By linking regional disease surveillance networks, CORDS builds a trust-based social fabric of experts
who share best practices, surveillance tools and strategies, training courses, and innovations. CORDS
exemplifies the shifting patterns of international collaboration needed to prevent, detect, and counter all types
of biological dangers Á not just naturally occurring infectious diseases, but also terrorist threats. Representing
a network-of-networks approach, the mission of CORDS is to link regional disease surveillance networks to
improve global capacity to respond to infectious diseases. CORDS is an informal governance cooperative
with six founding regional disease surveillance networks, with plans to expand; it works in complement and
cooperatively with the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE),
and the Food and Animal Organization of the United Nations (FAO). As described in detail elsewhere in this
special issue of Emerging Health Threats, each regional network is an alliance of a small number of
neighboring countries working across national borders to tackle emerging infectious diseases that require
unified regional efforts. Here we describe the history, culture and commitment of CORDS; and the novel and
necessary role that CORDS serves in the existing international infectious disease surveillance framework.
Keywords: regional infectious disease surveillance network; global health security; network-of-networks; IHR implementation;
WHO geopolitical structure
Introduction
In the past few decades, one or two new infectious disease
threats have emerged every year somewhere on the planet.
The vast majority of new human infectious disease
threats are zoonotic, meaning that they originate in
animals. As we develop more land, mine more of the
earth’s resources, and hunt and raise more animals for
food, we increase our exposure to animal pathogens that
have the potential to ‘‘jump’’ the species barrier. Because
both people and products are able to transit the globe
during the incubation period for many infectious
diseases, index cases often occur continents away from
where outbreaks originate. Whether it be SARS in
travelers (2003), influenza H1N1 in passengers (2009),
Nipah virus in exported pigs (1998, 1999), HIV in
shipped contaminated Factor VIII (1983), or E. coli in
foodstuffs (ongoing), the geographic expanse of infec-
tious diseases is truly boundless. Thus, populations across
the globe are at risk of newly arriving infections that may
be unfamiliar, difficult to diagnose, and challenging to
treat and control (1Á3).
At the same time, the increasingly competitive global
marketplace has created new trading communities that
are more economically integrated than in the past.
New regional and cross border trade agreements have
contributed to this shift in the trade landscape. The shift
is driving many economies to begin to orchestrate their
surveillance efforts, especially against infectious disease,
æ
OVERVIEW
Emerg Health Threats J 2013. # 2013 Louise S. Gresham et al. This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-
Noncommercial 3.0 Unported License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/), permitting all non-commercial use, distribution, and reproduction in
any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
1
Citation: Emerg Health Threats J 2013, 6: 19912 - http://dx.doi.org/10.3402/ehtj.v6i0.19912
Enhanced Surveillance for Detection and
Management of Infectious Diseases:
Regional Collaboration in the Middle East
Alex Leventhal1,7
*, Assad Ramlawi2
, Adel Belbiesi3
,
Sami Sheikh3
, Akhtam Haddadin3
, Sari Husseini4
,
Ziad Abdeen5
and Dani Cohen6
1
Ministry of Health, Israel; 2
Palestinian Ministry of Health, Ramallah, West Bank, Palestinian
Authority; 3
Jordan Ministry of Health, Amman, Jordan; 4
Search for Common Ground, Jerusalem;
5
Al-Quds Nutrition and Health Research Institute, Faculty of Medicine, Al-Quds University, Jerusalem;
6
School of Public Health, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University; 7
Braun School of Public Health,
Faculty of Medicine, Hebrew University, Jerusalem
Formed before international negotiations of the revised International Health Regulations (IHR), the Middle
East Consortium for Infectious Disease Surveillance (MECIDS) is a regional collaboration aimed at
facilitating implementation of the revised IHR and, more broadly, improving the detection and control of
infectious disease outbreaks among neighboring countries in an area of continuous dispute. Initially focused
on enhancing foodborne disease surveillance, MECIDS has expanded the scope of its work to also include
avian and pandemic influenza and other emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases. Here, we describe the
history and governance of MECIDS, highlighting key achievements over the consortium’s seven-year history,
and discuss the future of MECIDS.
Keywords: Middle East; cross-border collaboration; foodborne disease surveillance; avian influenza preparedness; pandemic
influenza
Introduction
Since the last decade of the previous century, there has
been a continuous trend of increasing globalization of
commerce, travel, production, and services. While this
new phenomenon is providing many countries with
significant economic advantages, it is also increasing the
risk of novel infectious disease threats. Other environ-
mental, host, and agent-related factors have contributed
to the emergence or re-emergence of various infectious
diseases (1, 2). The broad geographical dispersal of these
newly emerging pathogens in both products and people
has raised the need for new surveillance and response
capabilities. The ability to sensitively, specifically, and
promptly identify particular strains or subtypes of
organisms using modern diagnostic techniques has be-
come essential for rapidly and efficiently responding to
disease outbreaks and preventing potential epidemic or
pandemic spread. Additionally, as recent outbreaks of
severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and avian and
pandemic influenza have demonstrated, these new threats
are changing the way that outbreaks are dealt with*from
mainly local and national responses to regional and even
global approaches (2�4).
Global collaboration in infectious disease surveillance
is orchestrated by the World Health Organization
(WHO), most recently through the revised International
Health Regulations (IHR 2005) (5). A legally binding
document signed by all WHO Member States, the revised
IHR set rules for improving communication between
WHO and Member States and mandate that each country
has the laboratory capacity to rapidly identify outbreaks.
A year before the international negotiation of the revised
IHR, a sub-regional surveillance network, the Middle
East Consortium for Infectious Disease Surveillance
(MECIDS), was established as a means to facilitate
implementation of the IHR in three neighboring coun-
tries: Jordan, Israel, and the Palestinian Authority (PA).
Since then, MECIDS has enjoyed a close relationship
with the WHO, not just with respect to the revised IHR
(see Text Box 1), but also with respect to receiving
æ
NETWORK
Emerg Health Threats J 2013. # 2013 Alex Leventhal et al. This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-
Noncommercial 3.0 Unported License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/), permitting all non-commercial use, distribution, and reproduction
in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
41
Citation: Emerg Health Threats J 2013, 6: 19955 - http://dx.doi.org/10.3402/ehtj.v6i0.19955
The Emerging Health Threats Journal featured a special supplement on regional disease surveillance to coincide
with the launch of CORDS.
Dr. Suwit Wibulpolprasert leads a discussion
with the CORDS network.
19
2012 Annual Report
Discuss  Order a DVD of Last Best Chance and have your club or Meetup group
watch it. Order form and discussion guides are available at www.lastbestchance.org.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
CORDS complements the work of the leading global human
animal and food health organizations, and enhances the ability of
all the network members to improve global surveillance.”
David Rockefeller Jr., The Rockefeller Foundation
Al Quds University / Ministry of Health, Jordan /
Tel Aviv University
To support MECIDS coordination. $51,750 each
Center for Biosecurity, University of Pittsburgh
Medical Center
To develop a primer on global biosafety laboratory
protocols. $16,000
Center for Strategic and International Studies
To assess potential biosecurity prevention strategies,
determine which seem most promising and chart next
steps for research and engagement. $36,131
Middle East Scientific Institute for Security
To support the MECIDS Technical Secretariat in Amman,
Jordan. $81,000
Search for Common Ground
To support the MECIDS Secretariat in Jerusalem. $92,614
To support five days of field epidemiology training
for health professionals within the MECIDS partner
countries, organized by the Israeli Centers for Disease
Control. $55,000
To support MECIDS training activities, funded through an
NTI grant from the World Bank. $46,909
NTI Grants
Preventing Biothreats
When it comes to
biosecurity, the United
States government has
focused primarily on
ensuring a fast and effective
response, not on prevention.
To examine what needs to
be addressed, NTI partnered
with CSIS to hold a series
of high-level roundtable
discussions with more than
two dozen experts and
senior government officials.
The discussions focused
on threat prevention tools,
their costs and benefits and
techniques for integrating
them into practice.
NTI helped create CORDS,
which became an independent
organization in late 2012.
20 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Governments bear the responsibility for
implementing most of the solutions to the
threat posed by weapons of mass destruction,
but a public well informed about the urgency
of the threat can prompt governments to act
quickly and decisively. As Ted Turner wrote
in 2002: “If something’s not in the media, it’s
not in the public mind. If it’s not in the public
mind, there’s little political pressure to act.”
Educating the Public
21
2012 Annual Report
Understanding the power of an educated public,
NTI has always made public education a core
part of its mission and today maintains a robust
program that includes an independent, daily
newswire—Global Security Newswire (GSN)—
that covers issues related to weapons of mass
destruction and terrorism; two films—Last Best
Chance, a docudrama about nuclear terrorism,
and Nuclear Tipping Point, a documentary about
taking steps toward a world without nuclear
weapons; and a website with deep, unmatched
resources on nuclear, biological and chemical
weapons.
Generating Insights and Action for a Safer World
Spotlight on the Nunn-Lugar Program
In 2012, the Cooperative Threat Reduction
Program, known as the Nunn-Lugar
Program, turned 20. Called “one of the
most prescient pieces of legislation ever
enacted” by The Wall Street Journal, the
program was designed to safeguard and
dismantle weapons of mass destruction and
their delivery systems in the former Soviet
states. Accolades poured in commemorating
the anniversary. Sam Nunn and Richard
Lugar traveled to The Hague to be the first
recipients of the Nunn-Lugar Award for
Promoting Nuclear Security, created in
their name by the Carnegie Corporation of
New York and the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace.
In December, they received the
Distinguished Public Service Award,
the highest civilian honor from the U.S.
Department of Defense at a day-long event
featuring President Obama and then–U.S.
Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta.
NTI on
the web
www.nti.org
Follow NTI @NTI_WMD
Follow GSN @NTI_GSN
facebook.com/nti.org
22 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Cuban Missile Crisis: The Threat
Still Looms
The 50th anniversary of the Cuban Missile
Crisis offered NTI an opportunity to
connect the danger of that chilling nuclear
showdown with today’s nuclear threats.
NTI launched an interactive educational
infographic and social media campaign
to raise awareness. In the course of the
campaign, NTI President Joan Rohlfing
participated in a question-and-answer
session on Twitter, and NTI dramatically
increased its social media following.
New Book Chronicles the Four
In 2012, award-winning journalist Philip
Taubman wrote The Partnership: Five Cold
Warriors and Their Quest to Ban the Bomb
(HarperCollins), which tells the inside story
of the four NSP principals and Stanford
physicist Sidney Drell, describing their
efforts to reduce nuclear dangers. The
Partnership was released to critical acclaim.
The New York Times called it “fascinating
and haunting,” and journalist Bob Woodward
called it a “brilliant, penetrating study.”
Filling Gaps in News Coverage
Created and launched in 2001 by NTI, GSN
fills an ever-growing gap in media coverage
of the news related to nuclear, biological and
chemical weapons. Produced independently
We can say that the course of history changed for the better
because [Nunn and Lugar] helped the nation confront the threat
of nuclear proliferation at the end of the Cold War. The world
would have been, without question, a far more dangerous and
threatening place were it not for these two patriots.”
Then–U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
THE
PENTAGON
IS GETTING
BRIEFED BY
TOP NATIONAL
SECURITY
OFFICIALS.
ARE YOU?
underwritten by
by
Free and available online. Sign up today for daily email updates at WWW.NTI.ORG/GSN @NTI_GSN
GLOBALSECURITYNEWSWIRE
From government policymakers and academics to execu-
tives and top reporters on the national security beat, people
rely on Global Security Newswire to keep them up-to-date
on all the latest developments involving nuclear, biological
and chemical weapons, and terrorism.
Gathering overnight reconnaissance from around the world
and sorting through the latest updates from the diplomatic,
military and technology fronts, GSN’s award-winning jour-
nalists put together a complete and concise briefing with vital
information every day, via email, RSS or Twitter.
GSN breaks news that’s covered later by publications like The
New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. That’s why our
readers include staff at the White House, the Pentagon and
on Capitol Hill.
Don’t miss your daily briefing.
Sign up now at www.nti.org/gsn.
THE
WHITE HOUSE
GOT ITS DAILY
SECURITY
BRIEFING
TODAY.
DID YOU?
underwritten by
by
Free and available online. Sign up today for daily email updates at WWW.NTI.ORG/GSN @NTI_GSN
GLOBALSECURITYNEWSWIRE
From government policymakers and academics to execu-
tives and top reporters on the national security beat, people
rely on Global Security Newswire to keep them up-to-date
on all the latest developments involving nuclear, biological
and chemical weapons, and terrorism.
Gathering overnight reconnaissance from around the world
and sorting through the latest updates from the diplomatic,
military and technology fronts, GSN’s award-winning jour-
nalists put together a complete and concise briefing with vital
information every day, via email, RSS or Twitter.
GSN breaks news that’s covered later by publications like The
New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. That’s why our
readers include staff at the White House, the Pentagon and
on Capitol Hill.
Don’t miss your daily briefing.
Sign up now at www.nti.org/gsn.
A social media campaign used an interactive
infographic to tie the nuclear dangers of 1962 to
today’s threats.
Advertising promotes Global Security Newswire
and its award-winning daily news on terrorism and
weapons of mass destruction.
23
2012 Annual Report
by The National Journal Group, GSN
publishes breaking stories that are picked
up by leading news organizations. GSN has
become a critical resource for government
officials, policymakers, journalists, academics
and students.
In 2012, GSN dramatically increased its
output of original daily reporting, while
continuing to provide the latest news from
around the globe through aggregated
stories.
Contributing to Transparency
In 2012, NTI’s website remained the
unrivaled global resource for in-depth data
and resources on nuclear, biological and
chemical weapons. Students, government
officials, news media and policy experts
worldwide rely heavily on nti.org.
Produced by the James Martin Center for
Nonproliferation Studies, the continually
updated content includes more than
40 country profiles, interactive maps
and databases with rich information on
non-proliferation treaties and regimes.
Tweet  Follow @NTI_WMD on Twitter and retweet to your followers!
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
The Partnership is a richly detailed account of one of the most
important issues of our time—the management and future of
the world’s nuclear arsenal.... It’s a book that should be on the
bedside of every presidential candidate, national affairs journalist
and engaged citizen.”
Tom Brokaw, journalist and author
Friends Committee on National
Legislation Education Fund
To support the maintenance and
distribution of the Nuclear Calendar,
a weekly email listing of national
and international events related to
nuclear weapons, disarmament and
nonproliferation. $20,000
International Network of Emerging
Nuclear Specialists
To support an East Asia conference and
the development and distribution of the
publication, INENS Insight. $7,000
Monterey Institute of International
Studies
To maintain extensive web-based
resources for a broad public, including
country profiles, nuclear trafficking
resources and facilities maps. $699,983
NTI Grants
24 Nuclear Threat Initiative
4%
Governments
2012 Financial Information
2012 Expenditures
Nuclear Programs $7,542,247
Public Education $3,454,083
Biosecurity Programs $933,598
Management & Governance $2,025,015
Fundraising $103,317
Total Expenditures $14,058,260
NTI received single-year and multi-year contributions,
which funded 2012 activities. These contributions
included project funds from the governments of the
United Kingdom and Norway, as well as funding from
the World Bank, individuals and foundations.
1%
In-Kind
Gifts 24%
Public
Education
7%
Biosecurity
Programs
54%
Nuclear
Programs
14%
Management
& Governance
1%
Fundraising
8%
Foundations
86%
Corporations
& Individuals
1%
Investment
Income
Where the funds came from ... How the funds were spent
25
2012 Annual Report
Funders
With annual operating expenses of $14–15 million, NTI accepts
donations at all levels and is a tax-exempt public charity, under
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. NTI appreciates
the hundreds of individual, government and organizational
funders from around the world whose contributions demonstrate
confidence in our work and mission. Support our work by visiting
www.nti.org/donate.
Below, we highlight, with great appreciation, the funders who contributed
$5,000 or more in 2012.
Anonymous
Warren Buffett
Carnegie Corporation of New York
Edlow International Company
The Jeong Kim Foundation
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation
Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Norwegian Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Ronald L. Olson
William J. Perry
The Perry & Pena Family Trust
George Russell
Schaffner Family Foundation
Skoll Global Threats Fund
Ted Turner
Barrie and Deedee Wigmore
The World Bank
Give  Help build a safer world! Support NTI’s trailblazing work at www.nti.org/donate.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
26 Nuclear Threat Initiative
Board of Directors and Advisors
Ted Turner, Co-Chairman
Sam Nunn, Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Joan Rohlfing, President and Chief Operating Officer
Dr. Alexey Arbatov, Head, Center for
International Security at the Institute of World
Economy and International Relations, Russian
Academy of Sciences
Rt. Hon. Des Browne, House of Lords, United
Kingdom
Professor Liru Cui, Senior Advisor, China
Institutes of Contemporary International
Relations (CICIR)
Charles B. Curtis, President Emeritus, NTI
Michael Douglas, Actor, Producer
Ambassador Rolf Ekéus, Chairman Emeritus,
Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute
Gen. Eugene E. Habiger, USAF (Ret.), former
Commander in Chief of the U.S. Strategic
Command
Igor S. Ivanov, former Minister of Foreign
Affairs, Russia
Ambassador Riaz Mohammad Khan, former
Foreign Secretary, Pakistan
Pierre Lellouche, Deputy of Paris, former
Minister of State, France
Richard G. Lugar, former U.S. Senator
Dr. Jessica T. Mathews, President, Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace
Ronald L. Olson, Partner, Munger, Tolles &
Olson LLP
Judge Hisashi Owada, International Court of
Justice
Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Member of Parliament for
Kensington, United Kingdom
Ellen O. Tauscher, former U.S. Under Secretary
of State for Arms Control and International
Security, former seven-term Member of the
U.S. House of Representatives
Professor Fujia Yang, Academician, Chinese
Academy of Sciences
Book Groups  Have your book discussion group read The Partnership: Five Cold
Warriors and Their Quest to Ban the Bomb by Philip Taubman.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
27
2012 Annual Report
Emeritus
Pete V. Domenici, former U.S. Senator; Senior
Fellow, Bipartisan Policy Center
Susan Eisenhower, President, Eisenhower
Group, Inc.
HRH Prince El Hassan bin Talal of Jordan
Dr. William J. Perry, Stanford University; 19th
U.S. Secretary of Defense
Dr. Nafis Sadik, Special Advisor to the United
Nations Secretary-General
Professor Amartya Sen, Lamont University
Professor of Economics and Philosophy,
Harvard University
Rt. Hon. Professor Shirley Williams, House of
Lords, United Kingdom
Advisors to the Board of Directors
Warren Buffett
Dr. David A. Hamburg
HRH Prince El Hassan bin Talal of Jordan
Professor Siegfried S. Hecker
Dr. David Heymann
Frederick Iseman
George F. Russell, Jr.
As of August 2013
Prepare  Create a family emergency kit for natural or manmade disasters or
evacuation. Visit www.ready.gov.
WHAT
YOU
CAN DO
28 Nuclear Threat Initiative
NTI Staff
Officers
Sam Nunn, Co-Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer
Joan Rohlfing, President and Chief Operating
Officer
Deborah G. Rosenblum, Executive Vice President
Christopher F. Carr, CPA, Treasurer and Chief
Financial Officer
Corey Hinderstein, Vice President, International
Program
Carmen E. MacDougall, Vice President,
Communications
Page Stoutland, PhD, Vice President, Nuclear
Materials Security Program
Staff
Robert E. Berls Jr., PhD, Senior Advisor, Director,
Moscow Office
Deepti Choubey, Senior Director, Nuclear and Bio-
security Programs
Amy Cole, Grants Manager
Catherine Crary, Executive Assistant, Nuclear
Materials Security Program and the Nuclear
Security Project
Naomi Diehl, Special Assistant to the President,
Board Liaison
Cathy Gwin, Senior Director, Communications
Mimi Hall, Director, Public Education and Outreach
Kelsey Hartigan, Program Officer, International
Program
Diane G. Hauslein, Director, Administration
Laura Kiefer, Receptionist, Administrative Assistant
Jeff Lucas, Director, Online Communications
Valeria MacPhail, Director, Office of the Honorable
Sam Nunn, Atlanta
Owen Masangkay, Finance Administrator
Michelle Nalabandian, Program Associate, Nuclear
Materials Security Program
Andrew Newman, Senior Program Officer,
International Programs
Natalia Petrie, Accounting Manager
Samantha Pitts-Kiefer, Senior Program Officer
Elise Rowan, Communications Manager
Kimberly Russell, Administrative Assistant
Tempe Stephen, Special Assistant to the CEO,
Washington, DC
Tammy Ware, Executive Assistant to the Executive
Vice President and International Program
Caressa Williams, Executive Assistant,
Communications
Isabelle Williams, Co-Director, Nuclear Security
Project
NTI recognizes these former staff members who
contributed to our activities in 2012:
Charlotte S. Atkinson, ACA, CPA, Treasurer/Chief
Financial Officer
Louise S. Gresham, PhD, MPH, Senior Director,
Global Health and Security Initiative
Carole Mize, Receptionist
Margie Passerini, Board Liaison, Development
Associate
As of September 2013
We are in a race
between cooperation and
catastrophe, and the threat is
outrunning our response”
Sam Nunn
1747 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW | Seventh Floor | Washington, DC 20006 | www.nti.org
