2015 ANNUAL REPORT
NATIONAL
FISH AND WILDLIFE
FOUNDATION
The National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation is dedicated to
sustaining, restoring and enhancing
the nation's fish, wildlife, plants
and habitats for current and future
generations.
NFWF will advance its mission
through innovative public and private
partnerships, and by investing
financial resources and intellectual
capital into science-based programs
designed to address conservation
priorities and achieve measurable
outcomes.
In the following pages, we share a
few examples of our work from 2015.
On the cover: A loggerhead sea turtle
hatchling swims to sea off Florida's coast.
Chairman's Message  04
Moving Fast To Save Monarch Butterflies 08
Acres for America: 1 Million Acres Protected  12
Building Resilience Along the Gulf of Mexico  16
Guiding Investments Along the Atlantic Flyway  20
Pioneering Conservation Tools to Save Birds in Hawaii  24
Leading the Effort to Restore Wet Meadows  28
Cooperation and Investments in the Great Plains  32
Restoring and Managing Diverse Eastern Forests  36
2015 Financial Summary  39
Corporate Partners  40
Federal Partners  44
2015 Donors  46
Board of Directors and Staff  48
CONTENTS
A bull elk bugles on a
mountainside in Wyoming.
Throughout 2015, the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) continued to achieve
unprecedented conservation successes.
For the first time since its founding in 1984, the Foundation exceeded the $3-billion mark
in cumulative conservation impact, reaching $3.5 billion by the end of fiscal year 2015. This
new milestone speaks to the Foundation's strong growth in recent years -- it took 21 years
for NFWF to reach its first $1 billion in impact (2005), six years to reach its second billion
(2011), but just four years to reach its third billion (2015).
Overall, in fiscal year 2015, NFWF funded more than 800 conservation projects across the
nation. The Foundation awarded $87.6 million in federal funds, $449,000 in other public
funds and $38 million in private contributions, leveraged by $119.7 million in grantee
match. The Foundation also awarded $132.4 million in Impact-Directed Environmental
Account funds, including those from the Gulf Environmental Benefit Fund.
In total, NFWF generated more than $378.1 million in on-the-ground conservation impact
in fiscal year 2015.
The many programs launched or continued in 2015 demonstrate the strength and agility of
the Foundation. The new Monarch Butterfly Conservation Fund serves as a particularly good
example of NFWF's role as a fast-moving, focused and effective collaborator. Launched in
February, the fund provided a platform for NFWF and its conservation partners to quickly plan,
build and implement a national program to address the causes of a dramatic decline in monarch
butterfly numbers. Just seven months after its launch, NFWF announced an initial grant slate of
$3.3 million in investments, leveraged by matching funds into $10 million worth of projects to
support the monarch butterfly throughout the country.
Acres for America, the Foundation's pioneering conservation partnership with Walmart
that began a decade ago, marked two important milestones in 2015: passing 1 million acres
protected since its inception in 2005 and announcing a 10-year renewal of the program.
Ground-breaking efforts stretched across the nation in 2015, addressing an incredible array of
species and habitats. NFWF's conservation investments helped protect the majestic longleaf
pine forests of the Southeast, improve forest diversity in the Northeast, restore wet meadows
in the Sierra Nevada, and bolster watersheds of the Great Lakes and Chesapeake Bay. Along the
Gulf of Mexico, the Foundation continued to support large, significant and meaningful projects
to address the impacts of the tragic 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
The Foundation also created two new regional offices focused on the Southern and Rocky
Mountain regions, giving NFWF a total of five regional offices to better support local
conservation efforts.
In terms of financial and human resources brought to bear every day to solve complex
conservation challenges, NFWF remains unmatched. As we look to the coming year, the
Foundation has never been in a stronger position to fulfill its core mission: sustaining, restoring
and enhancing the nation's fish, wildlife, plants and habitats for current and future generations.
John V. Faraci, Jr.
CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF DIRECTORS, NFWF
4
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
John V. Faraci, Jr.
Chairman, Board of Directors, NFWF
NFWF's Conservation
Impact Since its Founding in 1984
$3.5
BILLION
Over the past three decades, the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation has grown
from a small nonprofit organization to one of the country's largest conservation
funders. NFWF-supported projects protect and enhance habitats across the nation,
benefiting both people and wildlife.
A gray fox hunts at night.
It's been a whirlwind year for the monarch butterfly.
In early 2015, media outlets across the United States and Mexico delivered alarming news
from scientific studies: the North American monarch population had plunged 94 percent,
from 1 billion to fewer than 60 million, due primarily to loss of critical habitats containing
milkweed, the food source for the monarch caterpillar.
Speculation on the iconic insect's potential demise shocked those who every year welcome the
beloved, orange-and-black visitor as a familiar and beautiful connection to the natural world.
In the spring of 2015, NFWF and one of its largest federal partners, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, developed a bold plan to quickly address the causes of the insect's decline. The federal
agency committed $1.2 million in 2015 so that NFWF could create the Monarch Butterfly
Conservation Fund and begin guiding conservation investments across the insect's U.S. range.
Through a variety of private- and public-sector partners, including Monsanto, NFWF
quickly leveraged this initial commitment and more than doubled the funding immediately
available. Working with monarch experts, the
Foundation then launched a competitive grant
program to increase vital monarch habitat.
By early fall -- just seven months after announcing
the launch of the fund -- NFWF had received
115 proposals and awarded $3.3 million in grants
to 22 of the most promising projects, in the process drawing another $6.7 million in
matching contributions for a total conservation impact of $10 million in its first year.
Many of these projects are now underway, led by a diverse group of grantees that includes
universities, conservation organizations, agricultural groups and government agencies. Projects
address three key strategies: habitat restoration, coordination and capacity building, and
bolstering the supply and distribution of native milkweed seeds and nectar-producing plants.
Already, the program has garnered the support of wildlife agencies, conservation groups
and corporate partners across the country. The conservation effort also has captured the
attention of countless adults and children who want to play some part in saving the butterfly.
"There are few organisms that are as approachable as monarch butterflies," said Dr. Chip
Taylor, a monarch expert with the University of Kansas, which was awarded a grant to help
Native American tribes restore monarch habitats on tribal lands in Oklahoma. "Kids can
watch these caterpillars grow out in their yards. They see this beautiful chrysalis form,
and eventually, a butterfly emerges. This is a kind of access we don't have with most other
organisms. That's part of the magic.
"This insect, with its fascinating life history, connects people with nature."
Projects Funded in 2015
In the Corn Belt, more than 30,000
acres of monarch butterfly habitat will
be created, established or maintained,
much of it on marginal agricultural
lands. New seed banks will establish
consistent supply in the region.
In Oklahoma, training will help
seven Native American tribes restore
monarch habitat, propagate plant
material, and process and store seed.
In Texas, the first and last stop on
the monarchs' journey to and from
Mexico, private rangelands and public
lands will provide critical nectar and
milkweed habitat.
The western population of the monarch
will be supported by 4,500 acres of
habitat established on public and
private lands, as well as a network of
government agencies, conservation
groups, universities and citizen-scientists.
SPRING
CORN BELT
WINTER
SUMMER
SPRING AREAS
SUMMER AREAS
WINTER AREAS
FALL MIGRATION
SPRING MIGRATION
CONTRIBUTING PARTNERS U.S. Department of the Interior's U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, and Bureau of Land Management; U.S. Department of Agriculture's U.S. Forest
Service, and Natural Resources Conservation Service; and Monsanto
This insect, with its fascinating life
history, connects people with nature.
-- Dr. Chip Taylor, University of Kansas
CORN BELT
9
MOVING FA ST TO SAVE
MONARCH BUTTERFLIES
Monarch butterflies rest
on a tree branch in a
winter habitat in
Santa Cruz, California.
Total Conservation Impact
in Fiscal Year 2015
$378.1
MILLION
In fiscal year 2015, NFWF awarded $87.6 million in federal funds, $449,000 in other public
funds and $38 million in private contributions, leveraged by $119.7 million in grantee
match. The Foundation also awarded $132.4 million in Impact-Directed Environmental
Account funds, including those from the Gulf Environmental Benefit Fund.
A mountain goat surveys
the landscape in Colorado.
The Acres for America conservation program marked two historic
milestones in 2015: Surpassing 1 million acres of wildlife habitat
protected and announcing a $35-million renewal to continue the
program for the next 10 years.
Acres for America has become one of the most effective public-private collaborations in the
history of U.S. conservation efforts by bringing together business leaders, landowners, public
agencies and conservationists to protect the nation's natural resources at a grand scale.
"The need for effective public-private partnerships for conservation has never been greater,"
said Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell. "I applaud NFWF and Walmart for their continued
commitment through the successful Acres for America program to preserve and protect
some of our nation's most important lands."
The program began in 2005, when Walmart made an initial $35-million commitment
to purchase and preserve one acre of wildlife habitat in the United States for every acre
of land developed by the company -- about
100,000 acres today. The program has far
surpassed that 10-year goal, protecting an
area 10 times larger. In fact, by conserving
private lands that connect national forests,
parks and other protected lands, the program
has benefited wildlife habitats and migration corridors over an even larger area -- more
than 10 million acres.
In fiscal year 2015, Acres for America awarded grants that will protect more than 235,000
acres of forest, riparian and coastal habitats in Alabama, California, Florida, Texas and
Washington. Including these latest projects, the program has funded 61 projects in 33 states,
the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. In addition to permanently protecting some of the
country's most important wildlife habitats, these projects have provided new public access
to some of America's most pristine natural areas, all the while ensuring that ranchers, farmers
and foresters can continue to work their lands.
Acres for America's incredible growth over the past decade has been powered in large part
by NFWF's ability to leverage Walmart's initial $35-million investment to generate more than
$352 million in matching contributions. Altogether, Acres for America has generated a total
conservation impact of more than $387 million.
With the program renewal in 2015, Walmart and NFWF are committed to doubling this
success over the next decade.
CONTRIBUTING PARTNER Walmart
The need for effective public-private partnerships
for conservation has never been greater.
-- Sally Jewell, Secretary of the Interior
13
10 YEARS, 1 MILLION ACRES PROTEC TED
ACRES FOR AMERICA
A bull moose moves
through a thicket in Wyoming.
Acres for America
Goal: 100,000 acres over 10 years
Through 2015: More than 1 million
acres protected through 61 projects
across 33 states, the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico
Total impact: More than 10 million
acres, by conserving areas connecting
national forests, parks and other
protected lands
ACRES FOR AMERICA PROJECTS
TOTAL ACREAGE OF WILDLIFE HABITATS BENEFITING
ACREAGE PROTECTED THROUGH 2015
GOAL
Projects Funded in Fiscal Year 2015
800+
In fiscal year 2015, NFWF funded conservation projects in 50 states, plus the District
of Columbia and U.S. territories. The total number of open projects under management
in 2015 grew to about 2,700.
A mule deer doe travels
through the snow at night.
A colossal effort to rebuild and restore 13 miles of coastline along
the Gulf of Mexico ranks as the largest conservation project ever
undertaken by the state of Louisiana and NFWF.
This massive conservation project is unfolding on the Caminada Headlands, a beach
and marsh system that serves as a barrier between the Gulf of Mexico and Port Fourchon,
Louisiana's southernmost port and one of the nation's most important energy hubs.
Over the past 100 years, the Caminada Headlands has experienced extensive shoreline
erosion. This loss of land has destroyed natural habitats critical not only to shorebirds,
fish and crustaceans, but also to the culture of southern Louisiana.
The degradation of this barrier island system also puts Port Fourchon -- and the nation's
energy supply -- at far greater risk from hurricanes. Port Fourchon supplies nearly 18 percent
of the country's entire oil supply, and its tenants service an estimated 90 percent of the oil
and gas exploration in the Gulf of Mexico. A 2014 study found that a 21-day interruption of
operations at Port Fourchon would cost $11.2
billion in lost sales at U.S. firms, $3.2 billion
in lost household earnings and 65,502 jobs
throughout the country.
Rebuilding such a critical landscape at such
an immense scale -- a new beach about 100
yards wide and 13 miles long -- requires
monumental efforts. When the NFWF-funded portion of the project is complete, workers
will have dredged more than 5 million cubic yards of sand from Ship Shoal, an 8,000-year-
old submerged barrier island 27 miles away in the Gulf of Mexico. Sand fencing and
planting of native vegetation will help stabilize the new dunes, providing stopover sites for
migrating songbirds and nesting habitats for shorebirds.
The historic project has been divided into two stages; NFWF funded the second phase with
$144.5 million from its Gulf Environmental Benefit Fund in 2014. A significant portion of the
dredging and construction work for this phase was accomplished in 2015.
"Landscape-level projects such as the Caminada Headlands restoration are incredibly
challenging, but they're critical to the future of Louisiana," said Chett Chiasson, executive
director of the Port of Fourchon. "Barrier island systems such as those being rebuilt on
Caminada are integral aspects of local communities and culture in southern Louisiana. These
headlands also provide a natural buffer from catastrophic weather events, which is critically
important to the resiliency of regional and national economies."
Caminada Headlands
Beach Restoration
A massive ecosystem restoration
project along a barrier island on
Louisiana's coast will restore about
800 acres of beach and dune habitat,
including one of the most important
least tern nesting sites in the state.
The project also will benefit a popular
state wildlife management area at the
headland's eastern edge.
Barrier island ecosystems such as those being
rebuilt on Caminada are also integral aspects of local
communities and culture in southern Louisiana.
-- Chett Chiasson, executive director of the Port of Fourchon
17
BUILDING RESILIENCE ALONG THE
GULF OF MEXICO
A white pelican flies along
the Gulf of Mexico.
13 MILES
OF BEACH AND
DUNE RESTORATION
TOTAL
5 MILLION
CUBIC YARDS
OF SAND
IN PHASE II
Workers build a beach at the
Caminada Headlands.
In fiscal year 2015, NFWF awarded more than 250 grants to projects that
sought to conserve freshwater flows and boost populations of freshwater
fish species. Many of NFWF's largest initiatives across the country fund
efforts to improve water quality and quantity, including those focused on
Sierra Nevada wet meadows, major western river basins and watersheds
feeding the Great Lakes and Chesapeake Bay.
FRESHWATER FLOWS
This westslope cutthroat trout
swims in a Montana river.
Since 1995, one particularly well-traveled red knot has flown
far enough to make it to the moon and back.
Each year, this individual bird banded with the number B95 undertakes an epic southward
journey, from arctic breeding grounds through the U.S. Eastern Seaboard, then across the
Caribbean Sea to South America and on to the very tip of Chile, where he winters along
desolate coastal beaches.
To endure such long journeys, B95 and his fellow red knots undergo extensive physical
changes. Flight muscles enlarge while leg muscles shrink. Stomachs and gizzards decrease
while fat mass increases by more than 50 percent. Even with such amazing adaptations, red
knots still require stopover habitats rich in easily digested foods.
Each spring, red knots and other shorebirds depend on the Delaware Bay as one such
stepping-stone on their journey back north. There, they fatten up on horseshoe crab eggs
before tackling the last leg of their migration
over vast boreal forest to their summer
breeding grounds on the tundra.
The loss or degradation of just one of these
stopover sites can put an entire population
of red knots or other shorebirds at risk. In fact,
more than 50 percent of the 75 species of shorebirds in North America are suffering drastic
population declines.
Over the past seven years, NFWF has worked with conservation partners along the Atlantic
Flyway to reverse the decline of one such shorebird: the American oystercatcher.
NFWF identified key threats to oystercatchers and developed strategies to address
them. The Foundation then made strategic investments to reduce nest predation and
human disturbance, increase stewardship efforts and monitor populations. In response,
oystercatchers have rebounded, and in 2015 were on target to show a 35-percent increase
over a 10-year period.
Seeking to replicate this success with other shorebird species, NFWF worked with
government, conservation and academic partners in 2015 to launch the Atlantic Flyway
Shorebird Initiative.
The new Flyway Initiative expands this highly collaborative model, giving scientists,
biologists, refuge managers, private landowners and others a new opportunity to address
threats common to 15 focal species across the Atlantic Flyway. The initiative also provides
a framework to focus resources at critical stopover sites in the United States and elsewhere.
Flyway Initiative
Launched in 2015
NFWF, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service and more than 50 participating
organizations launched a new initiative to:
· Address human disturbance,
predation and habitat protection for
American oystercatchers throughout
the U.S. Atlantic coast
· Address threats in the Caribbean and
northern South America
· Support planning efforts to protect
critical staging areas for red knot
and semipalmated sandpipers
· Fill key information gaps on
populations of red knot, semipalmated
sandpiper, American oystercatcher,
whimbrel and Wilson's plover
The loss or degradation of just one critical
stopover site can put an entire population of
migrating shorebirds at risk.
21
GUIDING INVESTMENTS ALONG THE
ATLANTIC FLYWAY
CONTRIBUTING PARTNER U.S. Department of the Interior's U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Red knots gather along the
Delaware Bay.
ATLANTIC FLYWAY
18,600
ESTIMATED MILES FLOWN BY
A RUFA RED KNOT DURING
ITS ANNUAL MIGRATION
35 percent
GOAL FOR POPULATION
INCREASE IN OYSTERCATCHERS
OVER 10 YEARS
In 2015, NFWF supported extensive forest conservation efforts throughout
the nation, on both public and private lands. In western states, NFWF partners
worked to conserve critical forest landscapes and restore habitats damaged by
wildfires. These efforts benefited important game species such as elk and trout,
as well as rapidly declining species such as the Pacific fisher. In the Great Lakes
and Northeast regions, NFWF funded efforts to reduce the decline in young forest
habitats. Throughout the South, projects continued to reverse the decline of the
once-dominant longleaf pine ecosystem.
HEALTHY FORESTS
A Pacific fisher scans a forest in
the Pacific Northwest.
Throughout the Hawaiian Islands, NFWF and its partners are fighting
on the front lines of bird conservation.
In a place sometimes referred to as the "extinction capital of the world," NFWF-funded
projects are helping to slow or reverse declines for rare and endemic species such as the
palila, Nihoa millerbird and Maui parrotbill, along with disappearing seabird species such
as the Hawaiian petrel and Laysan albatross.
To make a difference on the ground for Hawaii's diverse collection of unique, colorful and
critically imperiled birds, biologists are using the newest and most effective conservation
tools. Pioneering methods supported by NFWF include the protection of ground-nesting
seabirds with advanced fencing capable of deterring everything from goats to cats and even
mice. At one of Hawaii's most remote nesting colonies, new acoustic and visual sensors help
scientists keep tabs on seabirds and non-native predators.
Of all the conservation tools being put to work in Hawaii, translocation and the reintroduction
of species remain some of the most powerful and effective.
In 2015, biologists initiated a project to establish a colony of endangered Hawaiian petrels at
a national wildlife refuge on Kaua`i by translocating chicks from a remote, mountaintop colony
to newly restored habitat protected by a NFWF-funded, predator-proof fence. In addition,
albatross eggs were translocated from a Navy
missile test range on Kaua`i to a refuge on
O`ahu, where the chicks were raised by hand.
One new project, in particular, captured
the public's attention in 2015. Leveraging a
NFWF grant, state and federal wildlife officials
joined the San Diego Zoo to launch a bold plan to reintroduce the `Alala, or Hawaiian
crow, to the island of Hawaii. The `Alala Restoration Working Group is supporting an
intensive captive breeding and reintroduction program with the goal of releasing 11-13
birds into the Upper Ka`u Forest Reserve and Pu`u Makaala Natural Area Reserve each
year for five years starting in 2016.
"The last bird disappeared in 2002, so a lot of people have never even seen an `Alala in
the wild," said John Vetter, a state wildlife biologist involved in the project. "This species is
important ecologically, and it's important culturally. And they're very charismatic birds ­
they're large and loud, and they make very interesting calls. I think just seeing them on the
landscape again will get people really excited."
25
PIONEERING CONSERVATION TOOL S TO
SAVE BIRDS IN HAWAII
CONTRIBUTING PARTNER U.S. Department of the Interior's U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
In 2015, biologists established a colony of
endangered Hawaiian petrels at a site protected
by a predator-proof fence.
At a remote seabird breeding colony
on Kaua`i, scientists deployed automated
acoustic and visual sensors to study both
seabirds and non-native predators.
Elsewhere on Kaua`i, biologists are
working to establish a colony of rare
Hawaiian petrels by translocating chicks
(top) from a remote, mountaintop colony
to restored habitat within a predator-
proof fence built with NFWF funding.
At a refuge on O`ahu, researchers
hand-raised albatross chicks that were
translocated as eggs from a Navy missile
range on Kaua`i .
On the island of Hawaii, state and
federal wildlife officials worked with
other biologists to prepare for the
reintroduction of the `Alala, or Hawaiian
crow, in 2016.
One of the Hawaiian petrel chicks
translocated to an area protected
by NFWF-funded fencing.
1 2
3
4
`ALALA
HAWAIIAN
PETREL
MAUI
PARROTBILL
Protecting Birds in Hawaii
In 2015, NFWF awarded nearly 20 grants for
conservation work across Hawaii, including projects
that benefited coral reefs and engaged young people
in conservation. Many of the grants focused on birds,
including forest species that live nowhere else and
seabirds that depend on the island chain for critical
nesting habitats.
This male golden plover performs a distraction display at Alaska's Yukon Delta National
Wildlife Refuge, where in 2015 NFWF funded an effort by Manomet Bird Observatory
to survey shorebird populations at critical nesting sites. The Manomet grant was
one of more than 35 awarded in 2015 that benefited not only wildlife, but the many
communities and cultures in Alaska that rely directly on natural resources. NFWF grants
funded research on arctic ice seals and Cook Inlet beluga whales, conservation of
salmon, and efforts to recruit and train young Alaska Natives to protect wildlife habitats.
PEOPLE & WILDLIFE
A golden plover guards
its nest in Alaska.
In 2015, intense drought conditions and contentious water-
related issues dominated the news in California and many other
western states.
But state leaders and federal forestry officials found new cause for optimism high in
the Sierra Nevada. There, in the Eldorado National Forest's Indian Valley, NFWF's early
investments in the restoration of alpine meadows were paying dividends.
Degraded by a long history of legacy mining, road building and overgrazing, this "wet
meadow" had essentially turned dry. Water from rain and snowmelt no longer meandered
through the valley but instead ran quickly downhill, causing erosion and worsening water
quality for people and wildlife downstream. Such deterioration can be found at the
majority of the 10,000 meadows in the Sierra Nevada.
"Meadows are an important part of California's water infrastructure," said Luke Hunt,
director of headwaters conservation for American Rivers and the project lead for the
heralded Indian Valley meadow restoration project. "Meadows save water, they provide
incredible habitat for wildlife, and they do both at the same time."
Using a restoration technique designed to reroute streamflow, Hunt's group worked with
the U.S. Forest Service, corporate partners and a host of volunteers to create a series of
small wetlands throughout Indian Valley. The project, which began in 2012 and underwent
major construction in 2013, restored the meadow's natural functions, allowing water to
seep into the ground.
With 2015 funding from NFWF, Hunt's group continued to replant willows along the slowed-
down stream while scientists monitored and documented the results of the restoration
project. What they have found so far captured the attention of state and federal officials.
"The meadow really is working like a sponge, storing water for use late in the summer,"
Hunt said. "It's wet in the worst drought that any of us could imagine."
Before the project, the stream would go dry by midsummer. Now it flows year-round. As a
result, improved habitats now provide forage and cover for wildlife ranging from mule deer
and yellow warblers to imperiled species such as the Yosemite toad and willow flycatcher.
In 2015, California incorporated wet meadow restoration into its State Water Plan.
"NFWF helped prove that meadow restoration works," Hunt said. "They addressed
the bottlenecks -- prioritization, design and permitting -- and set the stage for
state investment in shovel-ready meadow restoration. Now meadow restoration
is happening across the Sierra."
29
LEADING THE EFFORT TO RESTORE
WET MEADOWS
CONTRIBUTING PARTNER U.S. Department of Agriculture's U.S. Forest Service,
U.S. Department of the Interior's U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
A healthy wet meadow,
one of 10,000 in California's
Sierra Nevada.
Meadow Restoration
Before the meadow restoration project,
Indian Valley had a deeply eroded stream
channel that directed snowmelt quickly
downstream, drawing down water tables
and decreasing water quality. Native
vegetation suffered, and meadow-
dependent species found little habitat.
After the restoration project, water
began to meander through Indian
Valley, which improved water quality,
boosted groundwater levels and kept
the meadow wet year-round. Wetlands
and newly planted willow thickets
provide improved habitats for meadow-
dependent species.
MULE DEER
YOSEMITE TOAD
WILLOW FLYCATCHER
Before
After
In fiscal year 2015, NFWF funded more than 90 projects directly tied to marine
conservation, including efforts in many states to improve populations of sea turtles
such as this loggerhead in Florida. NFWF-supported projects also focused on fisheries
along the nation's coasts, where researchers worked with fishermen to reduce bycatch,
study fish populations and remove derelict fishing gear. In 2015, NFWF also launched
its new Ocean Health Initiative, which encompasses a broad portfolio of marine and
coastal conservation projects that generate meaningful improvements to the health
of threatened marine and coastal species and habitats.
OCEANS & COASTS
A baby loggerhead crawls from
its nest toward the sea.
From the creation of NFWF's new Rocky Mountain Regional Office
to the awarding of both large-scale and locally focused grants,
2015 was a year of cooperative action and careful investment on
the Northern Great Plains.
Across millions of acres stretching from Nebraska through Wyoming, Montana and the
Dakotas, NFWF funding helped a diverse group of stakeholders tackle complex conservation
challenges affecting a suite of native species.
University researchers, conservation organizations, ranchers and government agencies
worked to restore habitats for sage grouse and other at-risk grassland birds. Ranchers and
other private landowners protected migration routes for pronghorn, and Native American
wildlife stewards continued efforts to reintroduce rare plains species on tribal lands.
Michael Kinsey, a wildlife biologist with the Gros Ventre Tribe, has been working with NFWF
and other conservation partners to study and bolster wildlife populations at the Fort Belknap
reservation in Montana. With NFWF support, Kinsey and his colleagues have been developing
a comprehensive wildlife management plan.
"Fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals ­
we're looking at all of it," Kinsey said.
In early 2015, Kinsey began mapping prairie
dog towns and conducting population density
estimates of the iconic plains mammal.
In September, Kinsey's tribe worked with
conservation groups and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to release 15 black-footed ferrets at
those sites. Nearly wiped out by habitat loss and disease, black-footed ferrets number just a few
hundred in the wild. These exceedingly rare animals prey on prairie dogs and depend on intact
grassland habitats such as those found on Fort Belknap and other reservations.
Kinsey also worked with researchers from Oregon State University on a NFWF-supported
effort to study and eventually reintroduce another at-risk species: the swift fox. About the size
of a house cat, these small canids have suffered steep population declines across their range
in the northern plains of the United States and Canada.
Mark Azure, president of the Fort Belknap Tribal Council, said the reintroduction of such
animals to tribal lands reinforces a deep cultural connection to land and wildlife.
"Throughout our history, everything was respected, every species had a place. Whether it's
ferrets, prairie dogs, swift foxes or even buffalo, pronghorn and elk ­ if we can put something
back that has been taken away, we should do that. It's a type of healing, really, and a way that
we have control of our own destiny. I think that's huge. I really do, and I hope it continues."
Whether it's ferrets, prairie dogs, swift foxes
or even buffalo, pronghorn and elk ­ if we can
put something back that has been taken away,
we should do that.
-- Mark Azure, president of the Fort Belknap Tribal Council
33
COOPER ATION AND INVESTMENT IN
THE GREAT PLAINS
CONTRIBUTING PARTNERS Margaret A. Cargill Foundation; U.S. Department of the
Interior's Bureau of Land Management, and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; U.S. Department
of Agriculture's U.S. Forest Service; and BNSF Railway
Projects on the Plains
Tribal leaders at the Fort Peck Reservation are
surveying and assessing swift fox populations
and identifying restoration sites. On other tribal
lands and private ranchland, Oregon State
University researchers are developing population
models that will be used to develop a 20-year
reintroduction strategy for swift fox.
Tribal leaders at Fort Peck and Fort Belknap
reservations in Montana are working with
conservation partners to enhance populations
of black-footed ferrets, sage grouse and swift
fox on more than 2.5 million acres of tribal and
private lands.
Throughout the Northern Great Plains, the Bird
Conservancy of the Rockies is helping ranchers
and other private landowners understand the
movement and conservation needs of at-risk bird
species, including the sage grouse.
Private landowners and conservation groups
are working throughout Montana and Alberta,
Canada, to provide insights into which fence
modifications allow for the most successful
movements by pronghorn. NORTHERN GREAT PLAINS
BLACK-FOOTED
FERRETS
SAGE GROUSE
PRONGHORN
A swift fox heads back to its den.
Efforts to protect native species often must address particularly complex issues. So it
is with salmon conservation across the major landscapes of the western United States,
where projects often must touch on water flows, water quality, habitat restoration and
fisheries management. In 2015, NFWF funded more than 45 projects directly tied to
salmon conservation. Work included restoration of flows and streamside habitats in
California, Oregon and Washington, extensive conservation efforts in Alaska, and a study
of salmon and southern resident killer whales off the coast of the Pacific Northwest.
SPECIES & HABITATS
Sockeye salmon prepare
to spawn in Alaska.
Aerial images of the Northeast and Great Lakes regions sometimes
paint a simple view of forest health.
Such photographs often show rolling hills and mountains covered in a carpet of green
canopy. To the untrained eye, this appears to be a healthy forest ecosystem. But to
biologists fighting to reverse a staggering decline in the abundance of key species, such
uniformity can signal trouble.
"Healthy forest systems include a mosaic of habitats, including grasslands, wetlands, thick
patches of young forest and open stands of old growth," said Tony Ferguson, the U.S. Forest
Service's director of the northeastern area state and private forestry. "Species often depend
on different forest habitats at different stages in their life cycles, and some species are
primarily found only in a particular age-class of forest.
"When large expanses of forested landscape aren't managed with biodiversity as a goal, we
start to see a dramatic decline in many species. We like to help landowners understand the
benefits of managing forested habitats for a suite of game and non-game species."
In the Great Lakes and Northeast regions, some
conservation efforts focus on creating and
managing for early successional forest areas --
tangles of shrubs and young trees and patches
of annuals and perennials that would naturally
spring up following wildfires, storms and other
disturbances. These young forest patches
serve as critical breeding and nesting habitats
for a number of declining bird species, including the golden-winged warbler and American
woodcock. Other imperiled species, including the New England cottontail, depend on such
habitats throughout their life cycles.
Despite their importance to forest health and biodiversity, young forests have in many places
been replaced by stands of uniformally aged trees.
For nearly a decade, NFWF's Early Successional Forest Initiative has provided critical support
to organizations working with large and small landowners to create and manage young forests.
In 2015, the U.S. Department of the Interior recognized NFWF for its role in helping
landowners in the Northeast reverse a dramatic decline in the population of the New England
cottontail, which had been considered for listing under the Endangered Species Act.
Building on this conservation success, NFWF launched the New England Forest and Rivers
Fund in 2015. This new competitive grant program focuses on diverse healthy forest systems
and rivers, along with the species and human communities that depend on them.
Healthy forest systems include a mosaic of
habitats, including grasslands, wetlands, thick patches
of young forest and open stands of old growth.
-- Tony Ferguson, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Forest Service
37
RESTORING AND MANAGING
DIVERSE EASTERN FORESTS
CONTRIBUTING PARTNERS U.S. Department of the Interior's U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service; U.S. Department of Agriculture's U.S. Forest Service, and Natural Resources
Conservation Service; and Eversource
Species in a Mixed-Age Forest Mosaic
Northeastern forests were largely logged during the
latter half of the 19th century. Since that time, trees
have grown back and been managed primarily as
mature stands. These areas provide habitat for species
such as the barred owl, wild turkey and Cerulean
warbler. Other species, including the American
woodcock, New England cottontail and golden-winged
warbler, depend on young forest habitats.
The golden-winged warbler is one of
many imperiled species that depend
on early successional forest.
Grassland
WOODCOCK NEW ENGLAND
COTTONTAIL
GOLDEN-WINGED
WARBLER
BARRED OWL WILD TURKEY CERULEAN
WARBLER
Shrubland Young Forest Mature Forest Old Growth
39
2015
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 2015 2014
ASSETS
Cash and Investments  $1,317.2 $1,006.1
Other Assets  $28.4 $23.7
Total Assets  $1,345.6 $1,029.8
LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS
Liabilities  $1,157.1 $851.4
Net Assets $188.5 $178.4
Total Liabilities and Net Assets  $1,345.6 $1,029.8
REVENUE, EXPENSES AND NET ASSETS
Total Revenue and Support   $219.4  $190.3
Total Expenses   $209.3  $159.9
Change in Net Assets   $10.1  $30.4
Net Assets, beginning of year   $178.4  $148.0
Net Assets, end of year   $188.5  $178.4
2015 2014
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF FINANC IAL POSITION
(in millions of dollars, as of September 30, 2015)
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF AC TIVITIES
(in millions of dollars, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015)
TOTAL EXPENSES
$209,296,017
TOTAL REVENUE
$219,412,505
Program/Mission 95.4%
$199,661,878
Non-Federal/ Other 63%
$138,741,162
Fundraising 2.5%
$5,328,408
Federal 37%
$80,671,343
Management & General 2.1%
$4,305,731
A NFWF grant awarded in 2015
focused on conservation and stock
enhancement for bonefish, like this
one, and tarpon in south Florida.
MATCH: 49%
GEBF: 11%
IDEA: 6%
NON-FEDERAL: 7%
FEDERAL: 27%
2011
1984­2010
$1.8 BILLION
SINCE 1984
$3.5 BILLION
SINCE 1984
2012 2013 2014 2015
CONTINUED GROWTH IN
CORE PARTNERSHIPS AND
PROGRAMS
GEBF AND HURRICANE SANDY
RECOVERY PROGRAMS DRIVE
RAPID GROWTH
NFWF's Cumulative
Conservation Impact, 1984-2015
The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation's
cumulative conservation impact reached
$3.5 billion in fiscal year 2015, aided by particularly
strong growth in funding since 2010. Federal,
corporate and other philanthropic partnership
funding increased, building on momentum in prior
years from new Impact-Directed Environmental
Accounts (IDEA), the Gulf Environmental Benefit
Fund (GEBF), and Hurricane Sandy recovery,
among others.
The Alcoa Foundation/NFWF Biodiversity
Initiative, launched in 2013, is dedicated to
strengthening communities by improving the
health of rivers and protecting biodiversity in
landscapes of mutual importance to Alcoa and
NFWF. The program funds on-the-ground res-
toration projects that benefit fish and wildlife
habitat and water quality, while contributing
to broader community-based goals.
Through its Restoring America's Resources
partnership with NFWF, Altria is helping
to protect and restore some of the most
important ecosystems in the nation, including
the Chesapeake Bay, Cumberland Plateau
and Columbia River. Altria supports improved
water quality by investing in effective conser-
vation and restoration practices on agricultural
lands, and in urban centers, and by acceler-
ating implementation of the most innovative,
sustainable and cost-effective strategies.
American Eagle Outfitters supports the 21st
Century Conservation Service Corps (21CSC)
program, a highly collaborative public-private
partnership of federal agencies, corporations
and non-profit groups dedicated to providing
service, training, education and employ-
ment opportunities for thousands of young
Americans and veterans, including low-income
and disadvantaged youth. This partnership
protects, restores and enhances public and
tribal lands and waters, as well as natural, cul-
tural and historic resources. Most importantly,
21CSC helps develop the next generation of
skilled workers, conservation professionals
and engaged citizens.
ArcelorMittal supports both the Sustain Our
Great Lakes program and the Chi-Cal Rivers
Fund. Sustain Our Great Lakes is improving
the ecological health of the Great Lakes basin
by providing funding for the restoration of
streams, wetlands and shoreline habitats. The
Chi-Cal Rivers Fund is restoring the health, vi-
tality and accessibility of the waterways in the
Chicago/Calumet region by awarding grants
for green stormwater infrastructure, habitat
enhancement, and public-use improvements.
Bank of America joined with NFWF in 2013
to support the Five Star and Urban Waters
Restoration Program, which focuses on
the stewardship and restoration of coastal,
wetland and riparian ecosystems across the
country. The program's goal is to meet the
conservation needs of important species and
habitats, providing measurable and meaning-
ful conservation and educational outcomes.
Through its partnership with NFWF, Bass Pro
Shops and the Johnny Morris Foundation
invest in conservation activities that restore,
protect and enhance native populations of
sensitive or endangered fish species and their
habitats across the United States, especially in
areas on or adjacent to federal agency lands.
In the Great North from North Dakota to
Washington State, BNSF Railway supports
two of NFWF's wildlife programs: Northern
Great Plains and Great Migrations and
Crucial Corridors. The programs strive to
maintain the relatively intact nature of
the region by linking human communities
with the benefits of stewardship activi-
ties. Funding directly supports communi-
ty-based conservation projects that provide
the ability for community leaders to pro-
tect and restore wildlife and their habitats,
promote job creation, and contribute to
the achievement of local tribes' cultural
and economic goals.
41
40
CORPORATE PARTNERS
CamelBak participates in the 21st Century
Conservation Service Corps (21CSC) program,
a highly collaborative partnership of federal
agencies and non-profit groups dedicated
to providing service, training, education and
employment opportunities for thousands
of young Americans and veterans, including
low-income and disadvantaged youth. This
partnership protects, restores and enhances
public and tribal lands and waters, as well as
natural, cultural and historic resources. Most
importantly, 21CSC helps develop the next
generation of skilled workers, conservation
professionals and engaged citizens.
The Coca-Cola Foundation supports the 21st
Century Conservation Service Corps (21CSC)
program, a highly collaborative partnership of
federal agencies and non-profit groups dedi-
cated to providing service, training, education,
and employment opportunities for thousands
of young Americans and veterans, including
low-income and disadvantaged youth. This
partnership protects, restores and enhances
public and tribal lands and waters, as well as
natural, cultural and historic resources. Most
importantly, 21CSC helps develop the next
generation of skilled workers, conservation
professionals and engaged citizens.
The ConocoPhillips SPIRIT of Conservation
and Innovation Program has conserved critical
species and habitats and water resources
across the United States and internationally.
Since 2005, it has provided funding for 75
projects in 14 states and six countries, pro-
tecting or enhancing more than 198,000 acres
of priority habitat. The current program is
focused on advancing water, biodiversity and
innovative conservation projects. ConocoPhil-
lips in Alaska also has partnered with NFWF
since 2003 to support polar bear research and
Cook Inlet beluga whale conservation projects.
Covanta, working with NFWF, NOAA and
Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc., provides a
no-cost option for fishermen to dispose of old,
derelict or unusable fishing gear through the
Fishing for Energy program. The program also
works with state and local agencies, communi-
ty and industry groups, and local ports to fos-
ter solutions to prevent gear loss and impact
of derelict gear to marine habitats and wildlife.
Collected gear is either recycled or converted
into clean, renewable electricity for local
communities at Covanta's Energy-from-Waste
facilities. Since 2008, nearly 3 million pounds
of marine debris have been collected.
CSX works with NFWF to improve water
quality in the Chesapeake Bay watershed,
supporting projects to restore fish and wildlife
habitat, reduce water pollution and engage
the public in environmental stewardship activi-
ties. In 2013, CSX joined NFWF and the state
of Maryland to implement the largest natural
oyster reef restoration project ever undertak-
en in the Chesapeake Bay.
Darden Restaurants works with NFWF, the
Walton Family Foundation, NOAA and Royal
Caribbean Cruises Ltd. to support the Fishery
Improvement Partnership Fund, which invests
in the sustainability of fisheries that contribute
to the U.S. seafood supply. In 2013, Darden
joined NFWF to improve the environmental
and socio-economic performance of the
Honduras spiny lobster fishery.
Through its partnership with NFWF, Donlin
Gold LLC supports the Alaska Fish and Wildlife
Fund in conserving Alaska's unique fish and
wildlife heritage by building capacity for
natural resources conservation in the Arctic,
Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, and Cook Inlet and
its watershed. The program works with local
partners to improve information, mitigate
threats, and conserve habitats for salmon,
migratory birds, polar bear, walrus, beluga
whale and caribou.
In partnership with NFWF, Enbridge supports
the National Wildlife Refuge Friends Program,
with a focus on the Midwest region near
Enbridge operations. The National Wildlife
Refuge Friends Program funds projects that
assist local organizations in being effective
co-stewards of important natural resources
within the National Wildlife Refuge System.
Since 1998, the program has provided over
440 awards totaling more than $1.8 million in
federal funds.
Eversource's Partners for New Hampshire's
Fish and Wildlife is dedicated to restoring and
sustaining healthy forests and rivers in New
Hampshire. Eversource, through its subsidiary
Northern Pass Transmission LLC, has com-
mitted $3 million between 2015 and 2016 to
work with a variety of stakeholders -- private
landowners, government agencies, academic
institutions and conservation groups -- to cul-
tivate science-based conservation strategies,
and cost-effective on-the-ground projects that
restore forest and freshwater habitat for New
Hampshire's fish and wildlife.
Through EarthSmart Outreach, FedEx works
with NFWF in 18 U.S. cities to fund urban con-
servation projects. With FedEx team member
engagement, the projects restore watersheds,
improve air quality, encourage environmental
stewardship, and foster community environ-
mental education.
International Paper and NFWF formed the
Forestland Stewards Initiative in 2013 to
identify, restore and protect landscapes in
three priority regions in the United States: the
Carolina Low Country Forests, the Cumberland
Plateau of Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky and
Tennessee, and the Piney Woods of Texas
and Louisiana. The goal is to protect and
restore more than 200,000 acres of forests,
to strengthen populations of important fish
and wildlife, and to improve water quality. The
initiative also highlights the critical role work-
ing forests play, especially for the areas where
Forestland Stewards projects are unfolding, of
which 75 percent are working forests.
Researchers with NOAA and the Vancouver Aquarium used
drones to study endangered southern resident killer whales
off the Pacific Northwest in 2015. The drones captured
never-before-seen images of the rare whales -- only about
80 remain in the wild -- including this mother and calf.
43
Through its partnership with NFWF,
Mitsubishi Corporation Foundation for
the Americas (MCFA) is helping to recover
endangered sea turtle populations along the
Pacific coasts of Central and South America.
MCFA supports conservation at the com-
munity level in cooperation with regional
managers to bolster sustainable fishing mar-
kets, reduce sea turtle bycatch and foster
collaboration for recovery planning.
Monsanto supports the Monarch Butterfly
Conservation Fund, established in 2015 by
NFWF and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
to protect, conserve and increase habitat for
these iconic insects and other pollinators.
The North Face and My Morning Jacket have
partnered to participate in the 21st Century
Conservation Service Corps (21CSC) program,
a highly collaborative partnership of federal
agencies and non-profit groups dedicated
to providing service, training, education and
employment opportunities for thousands
of young Americans and veterans, including
low-income and disadvantaged youth. This
partnership protects, restores and enhances
public and tribal lands and waters, as well as
natural, cultural and historic resources. Most
importantly, 21CSC helps develop the next
generation of skilled workers, conservation
professionals and engaged citizens.
Through its partnership with NFWF, NOVA-
GOLD RESOURCES INC. supports the Alaska
Fish and Wildlife Fund in conserving Alaska's
unique fish and wildlife heritage by building
capacity for natural resources conservation in
the Arctic, Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, and Cook
Inlet and its watershed. The program works
with local partners to improve information,
mitigate threats, and conserve habitats for
salmon, migratory birds, polar bear, walrus,
beluga whale and caribou.
Orvis has supported the BBN/More Fish grant
program which conserves fish habitats and
improves passage for native fish populations
in freshwater and coastal ecosystems. Orvis
has also supported wildlife projects in the
intermountain western states to connect crucial
migratory corridors and wildlife crossings for
bears and antelope.
Since 1999, the Pacific Gas and Electric
Company (PG&E) has partnered with NFWF
on PG&E's Nature Restoration Trust program,
to support riparian, coastal and wetland
habitat restoration throughout PG&E's service
territory in Northern California. This PG&E
and NFWF collaborative partnership program
empowers local communities to care for
native habitats and species and engage youth
in hands-on enhancement, restoration and
stewardship projects.
Through its Destination Conservation part-
nership with NFWF, Royal Caribbean Cruises
Ltd. supports conservation of tropical marine
systems throughout the Wider Caribbean.
Royal Caribbean is promoting ground-breaking
research and management approaches that
protect coral reef systems and secure sustain-
able fisheries for Caribbean nations.
SeaWorld Entertainment, Inc., supports two
initiatives at the Foundation that focus on
coastal and marine resources: the Killer Whale
Research and Conservation Program and the
Ocean Health Initiative. The Killer Whale Re-
search and Conservation Program funds efforts
to advance the knowledge and conservation of
wild populations of killer whales with a primary
focus on activities that aid in the recovery of
the southern resident killer whale Distinct
Population Segment and the Northern Pacific
Resident population. The Ocean Health Initia-
tive works through other Foundation programs
to support a portfolio of projects that bolster
the health of threatened marine and coastal
species and habitats while engaging communi-
ties in marine and coastal conservation efforts.
The Shell Marine Habitat Program supports
conservation projects that benefit marine
and coastal habitats and species in the Gulf of
Mexico and Alaska. Since 1998, the partner-
ship has funded over 260 projects, supporting
the protection, restoration, and management
of over 154,000 acres of habitat, as well as the
improved monitoring and management of key
species in coastal ecosystems.
Since 2003, Southern Company has partnered
with NFWF to support critical, long-term
longleaf pine, riparian, coastal and wetland
habitat restoration and the conservation and
recovery of bird species characteristic of the
South. In partnership with Southern Com-
pany's four operating companies, grants are
awarded to non-profits, government agencies
and academic institutions, which target both
large-scale and community-based efforts
within Southern Company's operating area of
Georgia, Alabama, the Florida Panhandle and
Southeast Mississippi.
TradeWind Energy and Enel Green Power
North America partnered with NFWF to fund
conservation easements on 12,656 acres in
the Flint Hills: America's largest remaining area
of high quality tallgrass prairie. NFWF is work-
ing with TradeWind, Enel, the USDA Natural
Resources Conservation Service, the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service, the Kansas Department
of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism, and the Kansas
Land Trust to protect an additional 4,703 acres
of this irreplaceable and ecologically critical
land in 2016, and to facilitate important
restoration of thousands of acres and research
work to benefit the ecosystem.
Walmart and NFWF created Acres for America
in 2005 to conserve lands of national signifi-
cance, protect critical fish and wildlife habitat
and benefit communities and local economies.
In its first decade, the Acres for America pro-
gram protected more than 1 million acres by
funding 61 projects in 33 states, the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico. In 2015, Walmart
renewed its commitment to Acres for America
by contributing an additional $35 million over
10 years to extend the program to 2025, with
a goal of protecting an additional 1 million
acres across the nation.
The Wells Fargo Environmental Solutions for
Communities grant program launched in 2012
as part of Wells Fargo's commitment to pro-
vide $100 million to environmentally focused
nonprofits and universities by 2020. The grant
program is designed to support projects that
link economic development and community
well-being to the stewardship and health of
the environment. Funding priorities focus
on sustainable agriculture and forestry, land
and water conservation and urban ecosystem
restoration. This program also supports green
infrastructure projects related to energy effi-
ciency and renewable energy, while encourag-
ing volunteerism in local communities.
The Chi-Cal Rivers Fund, supported by Wrigley
Company Foundation, works to restore the
health, vitality and accessibility of the water-
ways in the Chicago/Calumet region, including
the Chicago River, by awarding grants for
green stormwater infrastructure, habitat en-
hancement, and public-use improvements.
42
A great blue heron eats a shad
in the James River in Virginia.
NFWF was established by Congress in 1984 to
support the mission of the U.S. Department
of the Interior's U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
(FWS) to conserve fish, wildlife and plant
species. Since that time, NFWF and FWS have
worked together to foster innovative partner-
ships with corporations, foundations, other
federal agencies, and nonprofit organizations
to generate new resources for conservation.
From 1986 to 2015, NFWF leveraged $204.5
million in FWS appropriated funds into more
than $832 million to support nearly 4,675
grants to nearly 2,000 conservation partners
in all 50 states, the U.S. territories, and target-
ed international locations.
In fiscal year 2015, NFWF awarded $7
million in FWS appropriated funds. Our
partners are leveraging these funds into $33
million to finance 110 projects benefiting our
nation's fish and wildlife resources. The FWS
funds support strategic conservation efforts
focusing on at-risk species, habitat enhance-
ment, and community-based stewardship. The
partnership seeks to increase populations of
targeted species by promoting the restoration
of landscape-level habitat. Focal areas include
early successional forests, Southeast aquatic
ecosystems, Atlantic shorebird habitat, Alas-
ka's Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Northern Great
Plains, and the Klamath Basin in the Pacific
Northwest. In 2015, NFWF and FWS created
a new Monarch Butterfly Conservation Fund
program and continued to support efforts
towards Mexican Wolf recovery and New
England cottontail conservation.
In 1994, Congress formalized the partnership
between NFWF and U.S. Department of
Commerce's National Oceanic and Atmo-
spheric Administration (NOAA). Since that
time, NFWF has rapidly expanded its focus on
the restoration and enhancement of marine
and coastal habitats. Nearly half of NFWF's
investments support conservation activities
benefiting imperiled marine and coastal spe-
cies and the critical ecosystems in which they
reside. In total, NFWF leveraged more than
$76.2 million in NOAA funding to produce
more than $207.5 million for on-the-ground
and in-the-water conservation.
In FY 2015, NFWF awarded $4.4 million in
NOAA funds to 67 projects focused on coral
reefs, sea turtles, marine debris removal,
sustainable fisheries, and coastal habitat
restoration. While some of these projects did
not require matching funds, NFWF's partners
leveraged the NOAA funds to produce more
than $8.8 million for marine and coastal
conservation. New partnerships in fiscal year
2015 created the Electronic Monitoring and
Reporting Implementation program, which
awarded $2 million in NOAA funds and
leveraged $4.6 million to support projects in
both the Pacific and Atlantic oceans. NFWF
and NOAA also partnered on a new coastal
resiliency program across the entire Southeast
Atlantic seaboard, with a focus in the Cape
Fear watershed in North Carolina. Further-
more, NFWF and NOAA began discussions of a
new memorandum of agreement to establish
a formal framework to further cooperation
and coordination with the mutual goals of
engaging people in conservation, stewardship,
resilience, and the management of fish, wild-
life, plants and other natural resources.
NFWF and the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture's U.S. Forest Service (USFS) partnership
reached new heights in fiscal year 2015 with
implementation of the first forest-specific
agreement, a fire restoration program with
the Los Padres National Forest. This work
complements efforts supported through the
annual USFS-NFWF partnership where NFWF
awarded $3 million in USFS appropriated
funds, and another $15.9 million in other
agreement funds, to support 50 projects
resulting in a total investment of more than
$18.9 million. NFWF has leveraged $48.5
million in USFS directly appropriated funds
into over $283 million to benefit forest species
and ecosystems. These projects focused
on the conservation and restoration of wet
meadows in California, watersheds of the
Great Lakes and Chesapeake Bay, Western
45
44
FEDERAL PARTNERS
grasslands, early successional forest habitat,
Northern Rockies migratory corridors, and
salmon habitat in Southeast Alaska. NFWF and
USFS also partnered to support conservation
employment opportunities for youth on public
lands, monarch butterfly conservation, urban
watershed restoration, eastern brook trout
recovery, fuels management, and longleaf
pine ecosystem enhancement.
NFWF and U.S. Department of Interior's
Bureau of Land Management (BLM) partner
on conservation efforts benefiting the nation's
critical public-land ecosystems. The partner-
ship has leveraged $54.2 million in BLM
appropriated funds into more than $233 million
to support habitat restoration and species
recovery activities. In fiscal year 2015, NFWF
leveraged $2.4 million in BLM appropriated
funds into $12.8 million to support more than
40 conservation projects benefiting native fish
and plant habitat restoration on BLM lands.
BLM funds were used for a youth conservation
employment initiative in partnership with USFS
and the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to provide
public land conservation and employment
opportunities to more than 600 young people.
During fiscal year 2015, NFWF and BLM part-
nered to support monarch butterfly conserva-
tion efforts in the Western states and engaged
in a new Pacific seabird monitoring program
at the California Coastal National Monument.
Other focal areas and species include the
North Slope of Alaska, Northern Great Plains,
Northern Rockies wildlife corridors, and La-
hontan cutthroat trout. New partnerships are
being developed for 2016.
NFWF's partnership with the U.S. Environ-
mental Protection Agency (EPA) supports
innovative, large-scale nutrient and sediment
reduction efforts, as well as community-based
watershed restoration. Since 1998, NFWF's
grant programs sponsored by the agency have
awarded over 1,870 grants leveraging $131 mil-
lion in EPA funds into more than $383 million
for restoration projects benefiting our nation's
water quality. In fiscal year 2015, NFWF award-
ed $15.7 million in EPA funds to 116 projects re-
sulting in more than $45.8 million through the
Chesapeake Bay Stewardship Fund, the Sustain
Our Great Lakes program (in partnership with
FWS), the Long Island Sound Futures Fund, and
the Five-Star and Urban Waters Restoration
grant program.
In fiscal year 2015, NFWF continued to work
under a grant with the U.S. Bureau of Recla-
mation (Reclamation) to develop and imple-
ment the Walker Basin Restoration Program in
Nevada and California. The Program's primary
objective is to restore and maintain Walker
Lake, with a secondary objective of protect-
ing agriculture, environmental and habitat
interests. In fiscal year 2015, the program
spent $8.1 million on acquisitions and an addi-
tional $8.9 million on stewardship grants that
support overall conservation efforts within all
Desert Terminal Lake basins, which includes
the Walker, Truckee, Carson and Summit lake
basins. Reclamation also provided a third year
of support for a multi-agency conservation
youth employment program. The year ended
with the signing of a multi-year partnership
to support restoration and water flows in the
Lower Klamath Basin.
In partnership with the Bonneville Power
Administration and the Northwest Power
and Conservation Council, NFWF supports
an innovative, grassroots, incentive-based
program to improve river and stream flows for
imperiled fish throughout Oregon, Washington,
Idaho and Montana. The Columbia Basin Water
Transactions Program (CBWTP), founded in
2002, is the first regional effort of its kind in the
United States to enhance flows in tributaries
through cooperative partnerships with farmers
and ranchers. In fiscal year 2015, the CBWTP
spent $2.62 million on a combination of perma-
nent and temporary water purchases to restore
more than 32,000 acre-feet of instream flow
to rivers and streams of the Columbia Basin.
These flow enhancements boost high-priority,
fish-bearing habitats across the region.
NFWF continued to expand its relationship
with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's
Natural Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS) through the development of a Mon-
arch Butterfly Conservation Fund and the
receipt of two Regional Conservation Partner-
ship Program awards, one for the Chesapeake
Bay and the other for the Delaware River
watershed. These new programs build on the
continuing partnerships that support longleaf
pine restoration in the Southeast, Great Lakes,
and the Upper Mississippi River. In total, NFWF
has leveraged more than $66 million in NRCS
funds into over $255 million in on-the-ground
conservation. In fiscal year 2015, NFWF
supported 52 projects leveraging $4.9 million
in NRCS funds into $27 million to support
conservation on private working lands.
The Hurricane Sandy Coastal Resiliency
partnership was expanding in fiscal year 2015
to include a stronger focus on metrics and
evaluation. The Department of the Interior
(DOI) provided $18 million to support efforts
to develop and implement socioeconomic
metrics, evaluate program outcomes, and
develop lesson learned material associated
with the 54 grants approved in 2014. NFWF
continued to work with DOI to manage its 21st
Century Conservation Service Corps program.
Additional support was received from Amer-
ican Eagle Outfitters, Coca-Cola Foundation,
and American Express to support employment
opportunities for youth and veterans that
benefit our nation's public lands.
NFWF, in partnership with the U.S. Depart-
ment of the Navy and U.S. Marine Corps
Installations East-Marine Corps Base Camp
Lejeune, is working to conserve, restore and
manage habitat for the federally endangered
red-cockaded woodpecker (RCW) in Coastal
North Carolina. The objective of the part-
nership is to enhance the biological function
of RCW populations off-base to ensure the
military mission of Camp Lejeune is sustained
and preserved over time. In fiscal year 2015,
$5 million was provided to NFWF to support
activities associated with the first off-base
restoration site.
In 2015, NFWF also worked
with the following agencies:
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
U.S. Department of Defense
International Boundary and Water Commission
Marine Mammal Commission
U.S. Coast Guard
A gopher tortoise emerges from
its burrow in a longleaf pine forest.
$500,000+
Altria
Anonymous
ArcelorMittal
Pamela and J. Michael Cline
ConocoPhillips
Barbara and Ray Dalio
Eversource
FedEx
Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation
International Paper
Ishiyama Foundation
Sonia and Paul Tudor Jones II
Monsanto
The Moore Charitable Foundation
National Park Foundation
SeaWorld Entertainment, Inc.
Shell
Southern Company
Walmart
Wells Fargo
William Penn Foundation
$100,000 - $499,999
Alcoa Foundation
American Eagle Outfitters
Bank of America
BNSF Railway
CamelBak
The Coca-Cola Foundation
Covanta
Crown Family Philanthropies
CSX
Donlin Gold LLC
Enbridge
Dorothy Groves
Harte Charitable Foundation
Christopher M. James
Amy and Carl R. Kuehner, III
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
The Marisla Foundation
Patti and Don J. McGrath
National Wildlife Federation
The North Face
NOVAGOLD RESOURCES INC.
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Philip Morris USA
Blake and Chad Pike
Rasmuson Foundation
Elizabeth and Rod Rodriguez
Amy and Jeff Towers
John and Frances von Schlegell Family Fund
Walton Family Foundation
Wrigley Company Foundation
$25,000 - $99,999
Bass Pro Shops
Bed Bath & Beyond
BP
Brunswick Public Foundation, Inc.
The Chicago Community Trust
CitiGroup Inc.
The Cynthia and George Mitchell Foundation
Mark F. Dalton
The David and Lucile Packard Foundation
DDCD & Partners Inc.
Deutsche Bank
Stanley F. Druckenmiller
Glenn R. Dubin
Heath and John V. Faraci, Jr.
Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley Foundation
Goldman Sachs Gives
JJ Healy
George (Tim) C. Hixon
Patsy Ishiyama
Jeniam Foundation
Jewish Communal Fund
The Joyce Foundation
Eaddo and Peter Kiernan
Elaine and Ken Langone
Lennar Homes, LLC
Arlene and Reuben Mark
Mitsubishi Corporation Foundation
 for the Americas
The Orchard Farm Foundation
David Perkins, The Orvis Company
Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors
The Sage Foundation
Steven & Alexandra Cohen Foundation
The Woods Foundation
Lisa and Mark Vallely
47
46
2015 DONORS
In 2015, generous gifts from these donors furthered NFWF's actions to protect and
restore wildlife and their habitats. We greatly appreciate their support.
$5,000 - $24,999
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation
Laurel and Cliff Asness
Barclays Capital
Max C. Chapman, Jr.
Citi (London)
Citi Private Bank
The Ford Family Foundation
The Foundation for Pennsylvania Watersheds
Michael Grigsby
Jennifer Hanawald and Warren Rabin
The Henry Phillip Kraft Family Memorial Fund
JaMel and Tom Perkins Foundation
John and Amy Griffin Foundation, Inc.
JP Morgan Chase & Co.
Paul J. Kuehner
Robert Marwin
The McCance Foundation
R. King Milling
Gordon E. Moore
New York Community Bank Foundation
Offsetters Clean Technology Inc.
Andrew S. Paul
Michael J. Petrick
Pisces Foundation
The Raether 1985 Charitable Trust
Société Générale
Thomas L. Strickland
Sullivan & Cromwell, LLP
Tara Foundation, Inc.
Terminal Construction Corporation
John A. Tomke
Jeff Trandahl
Tudor Investment Corporation
H. Hunter White
Kirt B. Wortman
Louise Zarrilli and Christopher Sargente
$1,000 - $4,999
American National Insurance Company
David H. Anderson
Anonymous
Anonymous
Brown Family Foundation
Barbara Buffone
Martin F. Cannon
Beth Christ Smith
Cheri and Kent Braasch Fund
Robert Danielson
Gerald Davis
Doyle Fund Management
Eric C. Fast
Fieldpoint Private Bank and Trust
Barbara Florack
Garden State Life Insurance Company
Graham Capital Management
Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co.
Patricia Hajduk
H. Darrell Harvey
Christian W. Haub
Jacina Hayes-Waters
Lila Harper Helms
Mike Jemiolo
Levi Jimenez
Sydney McNiff Johnson
Evan Kashanian
Thomas E. Kelsch
Keun Soo Kim
Greg Knadle
Dennis LaCroix
The Lill Wane Fund
John Lyddane
Malcolm Pray Foundation
Michael D. Melnick
Jennifer Mull
Ruth O'Donnell Mutch
North American Title Company
Nancy Olkewicz
Emily and Brad Orben
David W. Puth
Melvin Raff
Anne and Clay Rohrbach
David Saltzman
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Joseph Tompkins
Victoria J. Tschinkel
Turner Foundation Inc.
The Valentine Foundation
Gerry Vans
Viguerie Investments, LLC
Emily V. Wade
Steven A. Williams
Patricia Witek
The Wyss Foundation
$500 - $999
Heather Alexander
Anonymous
Anonymous
Amanda Bassow
Jeffrey Bender
Joseph Bond
Frank Caragher
Gary Cox
Ian Davidson
Timothy DiCintio
First American Title Insurance Company
Jacob Freeman
Island Title 5 Star Agency, LLC
Kevin Linskey
Michael McMinn
K.C. Murphy
Noble Title & Trust, LLC
Omega Land Title
Penelope Oncken
Robert Polin
Salvatori, Wood, & Buckel, P.L.
Eric Schwaab
James Skarie
Connie Strobbe
Patricia Sullivan
Barbara and John Tormondsen
Donn Waage
Chris West
L.J. Melé Williams
Woods, Weidenmiller, Michetti & Rudnick, PL
$250 - $499
Joy Akabude
Alison Alfers
Janet Alward
Jim Alward
Anonymous
Anonymous
Associated Professionals of Florida, Inc.
Robert Blumenthal
Bruce N. Bolton
Margette Bourne
Bryant Title & Escrow LLC
James Bullard
Marla Carter
Anthony Chatwin
Christopher Collins
Julia DeBuchananne
Wendy DeLeon
Eric Forward
Paul Gaffney
David Gagner
Eric Gardner
Mark Gershenson
Helen K. Groves
Henderson, Franklin, Starnes & Holt, P.A.
Todd Hogrefe
Nassar Jabour
Tanner A. Johnson
Christina Kakoyannis
Mary Keelin
Susan Kinney
Michael Lagua
Brian Leitner
Chellie Mazzullo
Fred W. Mundie
Jody Olson
P.S. 6 Vacation Day Camp
Paradise Coast Title & Escrow, LLC
Christopher Porter
Princeton University Press
Ross Title & Escrow, Inc.
Suzanne Sessine
Sunbelt Title Agency
Treviso Bay Property
 Owners Master Association, Inc.
James Tucker
Matt Winter
A scarlet tanager sings in
the woods of Virginia.
National Fish and
Wildlife Foundation
Board of Directors
John V. Faraci, Jr.
Chairman
Patsy Ishiyama
Vice-Chair
Paul Tudor Jones II
Vice-Chair
Carl R. Kuehner, III
Vice-Chair
Charles D. McCrary
Vice-Chair
Don J. McGrath
Vice-Chair
Dan Ashe
Michael L. Campbell
J. Michael Cline
Lance Conn
Ray Dalio
John Dane III
Caroline Getty
JJ Healy
George C. (Tim) Hixon
Christopher M. James
Sydney McNiff Johnson
James P. Kelley
Eaddo H. Kiernan
Reuben Mark
R. King Milling
Jennifer Mull
Ruth O'Donnell Mutch
David Perkins
Chad Pike
Edwin R. "Rod" Rodriguez, Jr.
Thomas L. Strickland
Kathryn D. Sullivan
John A. Tomke
Amy Robbins Towers
Victoria J. Tschinkel
John E. von Schlegell
Steven A. Williams
Executive Staff
Jeff Trandahl
Executive Director/
Chief Executive Officer
Lila Harper Helms
Executive Vice President,
External Affairs
Holly Bamford, Ph.D.
Chief Conservation Officer
Senior Leadership
Anthony Chatwin, Ph.D
Vice President,
Science and Evaluation
Beth Christ Smith
Vice President,
Human Resources
Stephanie Tom Coupe
Senior Director, Impact-Directed
Environmental Accounts (IDEA)
Timothy DiCintio
Senior Vice President,
Impact-Directed Environmental
Accounts (IDEA)
Tokunbo Falayi
Senior Vice President,
Finance and Accounting
David Gagner
Senior Director,
Government Relations
Thomas Kelsch
Senior Vice President,
Gulf Environmental Benefit Fund
Greg Knadle
Vice President,
Government Relations
Eric Schwaab
Vice President,
Conservation Programs
Gerry Vans
Vice President,
Compliance and Risk
Management
Regional Office Directors
Donn Waage
Central
Amanda Bassow
Northeastern
Jay Jensen
Southern
Chris West
Rocky Mountain
Jonathan Birdsong
Western
Initiative Directors
Ian Davidson
Bird and Wildlife Conservation
David Lawrence, Ph.D.
Aquatic Conservation
Staff
Joy Akabude
Zeina Al Taha
Heather Chase Alexander
Edward Beshers
Pablo Blasi
Robert Blumenthal
Jim Bond
Joseph Bond
Margette Bourne
Daniel Bowater
Kenya Browning
Kristen Byler
Marla Carter
Abangolee Caulcrick
Mandy Chesnutt
Carrie Clingan
Bridget Collins
Hilary Collis
Morgan Cross
Karen Dawson
Rachel Dawson
Julia DeBuchananne
Wendy DeLeon
Jennie Dean
Jeffrey Dengel
Ashley Downing
Stephany Dula-Strong
Lynn Dwyer
Dean Economides
Teal Edelen
Julia Ela
Kenneth Eye
Daniel Forkkio
Cassidy Forman
Eric Forward
Matthew Foster
Michael Freedman
Paul Gaffney
Meskerem Gebertsadik
Anna Gering
Traci Giefer
Brigid Gillespie
Deborah Gillespie
Emily Graham
Amanda Green
C. Scott Hall
Jacina Hayes-Waters
Michele Haynes
Alyssa Hildt
Todd Hogrefe
Rankin Holmes
William Jackson
Tanner Johnson
Brenda Kaechele
Christina Kakoyannis, Ph.D.
Fatima Kamara
Mary Keelin
Richmond Knight
Courtney Kwiatkowski
Michael Lagua
John Lamoreux, Ph.D.
Jessica Lassetter
Candace Leong
Kevin Linskey
Carrie Loh
Annamarie Lopata
Danyell Mackall
Shawn Marchand
Kacy Markowitz
Michael Matosich
Scott McCaulou
Courtney McGeachy
Sarah McIntosh
Mark Melino
Joy Morris
Elizabeth Nellums
Nancy Olkewicz
Jody Olson
Michelle Olson
Caroline Oswald
Sarah Peterson
Michelle Pico
Elizabeth Planken
Robert Polin
Jonathan Porthouse
Genee' Powell
Andrew Purkey
David Radomsky
Jake Reilly
Jonathan Scott
Suzanne Sessine
Michael Sharp
Kimberly Shriner
Andrew Stilson
Claire Thorp
Lindsay Vacek
Ryan VanderMeulen
Colleen Walters
Melé Williams
Zelma Williams
Matt Winter
Jason Wright
John Wright
David Yardas
49
48
Photography: National Geographic
Creative (cover, loggerhead sea turtle
hatchling), Steve Perry (p. 2 bull
elk), Ron Antonelli (p. 5 John Faraci),
Jonny Armstrong (p. 6-7 gray fox,
p. 14-15 mule deer, p. 22-23 fisher,
p. 34-35 sockeye salmon), Patrick
Clayton/Engbretson Underwater
Photography (p. 18-19 westslope
cutthroat trout), Ron Antonelli
(p. 20 red knots), Andre Raine (p. 24
Hawaiian petrel chick), Gerrit Vyn
(p. 26-27 golden plover, p. 36 golden-
winged warbler), Jason Arnold (p. 38
bonefish), Greg Knadle (p. 46 scarlet
tanager). All other photos by iStock/
Getty Images and NFWF grantees.
Design: ripe
NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS,
NORTHEASTERN AND
SOUTHERN REGIONAL OFFICES
1133 15th Street, N.W.
Suite 1100
Washington, DC 20005
202-857-0166
CENTRAL REGIONAL OFFICE
8011 34th Avenue South
Suite 242
Bloomington, MN 55425
612-564-7284
ROCKY MOUNTAIN
REGIONAL OFFICE
44 Cook Street
Suite 100
Denver, CO 80206
303-871-0240
WESTERN REGIONAL OFFICE
90 New Montgomery Street
Suite 1010
San Francisco, CA 94105
415-778-0999
nfwf.org
