Our Promise:
A World in Which No Child Has AIDS
Until no
child has
AIDS.
Elizabeth Glaser
Pediatric AIDS
Foundation
2 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
President’s Message
Georgina
Goodwin/EGPAF
2014 Annual Report 3
Every day, 600 children are born with HIV. Of the 3.2
million children living with the virus, only one-quarter
have access to the antiretroviral therapy essential to
their survival. Without treatment, half of those children
die by their second birthday and 80 percent die before
the age of 5. These sobering statistics highlight the vital
importance of the continuing work of the Elizabeth Glaser
Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF).
Since its founding in 1988, EGPAF has maintained sharp
focus on Elizabeth Glaser’s promise of a world in which
no child has AIDS, and each year we have made steady
progress toward fulfilling that pledge. At a time when
children living with HIV were largely overlooked and
presumed marked for death, our founders—Elizabeth
Glaser, Susie Zeegen, and Susan DeLaurentis— issued a
challenge to policy makers to fund research that would save
those young lives. Their challenge activated research that,
within a decade, virtually halted new pediatric HIV infections
in the United States and other high-resource countries.
EGPAF continues to lead the fight to end pediatric AIDS
worldwide by focusing our programs and research on
meeting the 90-90-90 targets set by the Joint United
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS): 90 percent
of all children living with HIV being diagnosed, 90 percent
of those diagnosed as HIV-positive receiving treatment,
and 90 percent of children receiving treatment achieving
viral suppression by 2020. With the generous support of
our donors, we are working in many of the countries with
the highest HIV burden to meet these ambitious goals.
Through an unprecedented mobilization of health workers
to reach pregnant mothers and HIV-affected children,
infections in children worldwide have declined by nearly
58 percent since 2001. Yet more than half of pregnant
women in low- and middle-income countries still do not
know their HIV status, which means that many expectant
mothers living with HIV are not accessing HIV prevention,
care, and treatment services. Without those services, HIV-
positive women cannot live long, healthy lives, and they
cannot ensure that their children will be HIV-free.
However—as a result of the collaborative efforts of partners,
including UNAIDS, the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan
for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), national governments, and civil
society—we are quickly gaining ground on the goal of
preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV worldwide.
In 2011, UNAIDS and PEPFAR launched the Global Plan
which aims to provide HIV services to each pregnant
woman living with HIV—from the beginning of her
pregnancy until she stops breastfeeding—and to reach
her children with any necessary HIV services.
Since the introduction of the Global Plan, the number
of new HIV infections among children in the 22 highest
burden countries has declined by 48 percent. The
partnership has shown what is possible when a group of
stakeholders contributes collective resources to address
a critical issue.
As the Global Plan sunsets in 2015, EGPAF continues to
push hard to reach every HIV-affected family in the 14
countries that we support. An important driver of EGPAF’s
programs is a strong understanding of what works. In
recent years, we have greatly expanded HIV testing and
treatment by integrating those services with antenatal and
postnatal care. We provide counseling and psychosocial
support to pregnant women and children living with
HIV so they start treatment and continue to take their
antiretroviral medicine. We also use community-based
channels to involve men in the health of their families—
all based on evidence that holistic and integrated public
health dramatically reduces new HIV infections in children.
The heart of our efforts remains the HIV-affected child or
adolescent who grows up strong and vital because we
were able to reach her or his family with prevention of
mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) services and
lifelong antiretroviral treatment. EGPAF was founded with
Elizabeth Glaser’s promise of a world in which no child
has AIDS. Her promise directs every action that we take.
Charles J. Lyons
President and CEO
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
”
We are dedicated to fulfilling
Elizabeth Glaser’s promise of a
world in which no child has AIDS.
“
Charles J. Lyons
EGPAF President
and CEO
4 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Contents
2 10 18
2014 at a Glance
Together, We Have Reached
More Than 20 Million Women
“I Am One in 20 Million”
6
8
9
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
President’s Message Programs Research
Integrated HIV Programs
Save Mothers and Babies
“We Had Done It”
Children Living With HIV
Require Access to Lifelong
Treatment
“If I Take My Medication Correctly,
I Will Be Healthy for Many Years”
Children Living With HIV Thrive
With Psychosocial Support
Health Systems Strengthening
EGPAF’s National Affiliates
19
20
21
James
Pursey/EGPAF
Strengthening Operational AIDS
Research (Project SOAR)
Advancing Community-level
Action for Improving MNCH/PMTCT
(ACCLAIM project)
Susan Zeegen
Postdoctoral Award
2014 Annual Report 5
22 25 38
39
43
Public Policy & Advocacy
Policy Roundtable:
What’s Next in Ending
Pediatric AIDS
Parliamentarians Are
Crucial Allies
Our Generous Donors
Events
23
24
26
35
Your Impact Board of Directors
Senior Leadership Team
Final Words
James
Pursey/EGPAF,
2010
40 Financial Overview
6 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
2014
At a Glance
By the end of 2014, EGPAF had*
• provided more than 21 million women with
services to prevent transmission of HIV to
their babies;
• tested more than 19 million women for HIV;
• enrolled more than 2.3 million individuals,
including more than 188,000 children, into
HIV care and support programs; and
• started nearly 1.4 million individuals—including
more than 114,000 children under the age of
15—on antiretroviral treatment.
*
Numbers here reflect accomplishments across the history
of EGPAF through 2014.
J
a
m
e
s
P
u
r
s
e
y
/
EGPAF, 2012
2014 Annual Report 7
8 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Together, We Have Reached
More Than 20 Million Women
One ordinary day in May 2014, in one of the countries
supported by EGPAF, a health worker provided a woman
with HIV counseling, HIV testing, or antiretroviral medicines.
Perhaps it occurred in a one-room private clinic along a
quiet dirt road in Swaziland. Or it might have happened
on the second floor of a government hospital in Harare,
Zimbabwe, to the din of car horns and rumble of city
buses. It might have occurred in any of the nearly 7,800
facilities around the world that EGPAF supports.
Although there was no fanfare, that woman in that health
facility represents an EGPAF milestone. She was the 20
millionth woman that EGPAF reached with services to
prevent the transmission of HIV from mother to child.
Globally, pediatric HIV infections have been reduced
by more than half since 2001 because of prevention of
mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) programs.
Yet each day 600 children become newly infected with
HIV, almost all of whom contract the virus from their
mothers during pregnancy, childbirth, or breastfeeding.
More than 90 percent of these pediatric infections occur
in sub-Saharan Africa, where barriers to treatment and
services remain.
More than one-quarter of the 1.5 million HIV-positive
pregnant women around the world in 2014 did not have
access to PMTCT services. These services include
family planning; HIV testing and counseling; accessible
and affordable antiretroviral therapy (ART) for pregnant
women, mothers, and children living with HIV; and early
infant testing, diagnosis, and treatment.
In May 2014, we reached our 20 millionth woman—and
we didn’t stop. By the end of the year, we had reached
more than 21 million women with PMTCT services,
reflecting the accelerated pace of our work. With
international, national, and local partners, EGPAF is
working to ensure that all women, children, and families
have access to the comprehensive HIV services needed
to end AIDS in children.
What seemed impossible
only a few years ago is
now within our grasp.
“
”
Charles J. Lyons
EGPAF President
and CEO
2014 Annual Report 9
By age 23, I had lost several family members to the AIDS
epidemic and my home country of Zambia had lost an
entire generation. Nearly 700,000 Zambians had died
from AIDS-related causes by the year 2000. In 2003, I
learned I was HIV-positive.
Would I be joining the lost generation in Zambia?
Fortunately, at that time the U.S. President’s Emergency
Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) came to Africa. EGPAF had
been working in Zambia in 2001, and PEPFAR helped
extend its reach. I was able to receive the lifesaving
medication and treatment that had been out of reach
for so many Zambians before. During this time, I met my
husband, who made the miracle of HIV treatment all the
more rich. Living with HIV did not mean that I would miss
out on romance. I would live a full life.
A second miracle came in 2009 when my first son was
born HIV-free, followed by another HIV-free son in 2011.
After learning about EGPAF, I quickly became involved,
knowing that my sons’ healthy births were thanks to its
decades of work.
In May 2014, EGPAF reached its 20 millionth woman with
its lifesaving services, which was a beautiful moment for
me. When I think of these 20 million women, I see the
smiling faces of women across Zambia...women from my
family, women whose lives had been touched by EGPAF.
Yet we continue to fight because there is still more to be
done. Nearly 13 percent of Zambians are living with HIV.
While many women in Zambia can now access prevention
of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) services,
thousands still lack access to medications and services.
These women need the support system that I had. We
must ensure that their families and communities have the
capacity to help and support them.
With all the obligations and responsibilities of being
a mother, no woman should also have to worry about
receiving the lifesaving treatment she and her child
need. We have the opportunity to rebuild our country by
supporting an AIDS-free generation. But doing so requires
sharing information about lifesaving services.
Martha Cameron
EGPAF Ambassador | Zambia/Washington, D.C.
No woman should have to worry
about receiving the lifesaving
treatment that she and her child need.
“
”
Martha Cameron
EGPAF Ambassador
Eric
Bond/EGPAF,
2015
“I Am One
in 20 Million”
Programs in Zambia are hastening an HIV-free generation
10 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
James
Pursey/EGPAF,
Programs
In 2014, EGPAF’s dedicated staff of more than 1,000 helped save
millions of lives in collaboration with key partners, including private
donors; the United States government; ministries of health in host
countries; and multilateral organizations such as the Joint United
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the World Health
Organization (WHO), and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF).
Most EGPAF staff members are nationals of the countries we support.
Their work fosters greater efficiency and national ownership.
Our Promise:
To expand high-quality,
locally owned HIV/AIDS
services to end new
infections in children
and keep families healthy
through strengthened
health systems.
2014 Annual Report 11
In resource-limited countries, AIDS is the leading cause
of death among women of reproductive age, followed by
conditions related to pregnancy and childbirth. More than
800 women die every day from childbirth complications,
and women living with HIV are six to eight times more
likely to die giving birth. In high-burden countries HIV is a
major contributor to child deaths, in some cases amounting
to 19 percent of deaths in children younger than age 5.
Ending pediatric HIV/AIDS, eliminating treatment gaps for
children, and reducing preventable maternal, newborn,
and child deaths are all closely intertwined, especially in
countries with a high HIV burden. Prevention and treatment
of HIV infections in women and children are achievable
only when HIV services are integrated as an essential part
of comprehensive and high-quality maternal, newborn, and
child health (MNCH) programs in countries with strong
national health systems.
In resource-limited settings, a woman often only accesses
health care during pregnancy, delivery, and shortly
after her child is born. Thus, health centers that offer
MNCH services have become essential locations for
expanding HIV prevention, testing, and care and treatment
services, for women and children who are HIV-exposed
and HIV-infected.
In 2014, EGPAF worked to scale up availability of HIV testing,
care, treatment, and adherence services at key MNCH focal
points—such as family planning sites, antenatal clinics,
labor and delivery wards, pediatric wards, nutrition clinics,
and immunization locations. EGPAF managed to increase
this linkage of services by training health workers on HIV
testing, diagnosis, disease management, counseling, and
community outreach.
This integrated model promotes wider use of more
efficient health systems that reach women, infants, and
children most in need.
2014 PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS
Integrated HIV Programs Save
Mothers and Babies
12 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
When they told me all three of
my children were HIV-negative,
I could not hide the tears of joy.
We had done it!
“
”
Susan Jembere
Mother of triplets
Zimbabwe
EGPAF,
2015
Living with HIV and actively treating it with antiretroviral
(ARV) medication, Susan Jembere did not waste any time
beginning antenatal care when she became pregnant.
Already a mother of three, Susan knew that she could
prevent transmission of the virus to her unborn child
through a prevention of mother-to-child transmission of
HIV (PMTCT) drug regime. When the nurse at Susan’s
local clinic referred her to a big mission hospital in
Musami, Zimbabwe, Susan could not help but worry that
something may be wrong.
An ultrasound scan at the hospital showed that she was
carrying triplets. Susan was overwhelmed—three children
at home and now three more on the way.
“For the first time, I began to doubt if the ARVs were going
to be strong enough to help all these three [new] children
not to get the infection,” said Susan.
Susan, however, continued taking her medication and
visited the hospital regularly for antenatal care. At these
visits, she was counseled on how to administer ARV
prophylaxis to her babies after delivery. She was also
given information about postnatal care. Her babies would
be tested for HIV repeatedly until 18-months of age or
breastfeeding cessation, so that appropriate care and
treatment could begin early if they tested positive for HIV.
Susan gave birth to three healthy girls—Tinotendaishe,
Tadiwanashe, and Tanatswanashe—weighing in at 4.5,
4.8, and 5.0 lbs., respectively. Hospital staff told Susan
that the healthiest feeding option would be to breastfeed.
“Now I had another worry,” remembers Susan. “Would I
have enough milk for all three of my girls to exclusively
breastfeed for six months? I was determined and
somehow managed to do it. I did not want to let anything
come in the way of my triplets’ good health.” Susan
brought her babies back to the hospital regularly for
postnatal care and to test them, routinely, for HIV.
“The worries were never ending, but I knew I had done
everything right,” says Susan. “When they told me all
three of my children were HIV-negative, I could not hide
the tears of joy. We had done it!”
“We Had Done It”
Integrated care leads to triple the joy
2014 Annual Report 13
2014 PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS
Children Living With HIV
Require Access to Lifelong Treatment
Because 90 percent of pediatric HIV infections are
transmitted from HIV-positive mothers to their children
in utero, during delivery, or through breast milk, most
global efforts to end AIDS in children have focused on
the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV
(PMTCT). PMTCT programs have resulted in an impressive
58 percent reduction of new infections among children
between 2001 and 2014.
Despite these gains, as many as 3.5 million children
younger than age 15 are living with HIV—and fewer than
one-third of HIV-infected children have access to lifesaving
antiretroviral treatment. This gap in treatment access
and coverage is devastating because without treatment,
80 percent of HIV-positive children will die by their fifth
birthdays. In some high-burden countries, 19 percent of
deaths in children younger than age 5 are attributed to
AIDS-related causes.
EGPAF was founded to protect and care for children
living with HIV, and we continue to fulfill this mission
through programs that promote access to care and
treatment among HIV-positive children, as well as access
to psychosocial and adherence support for children
and their families. Today, the global community is as
supportive as ever of our mission—as evidenced by the
2014 release of the Joint United Nations Programme on
HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) 90/90/90 targets and the publication
of revised 2013 World Health Organization (WHO)
treatment guidelines. They call for universal initiation of
antiretroviral treatment for all HIV-positive children younger
than age 5, irrespective of their disease progression, as
well as wider treatment initiation criteria for older children
and adolescents.
From data gathered through years of HIV program
implementation, we know that children diagnosed with HIV
can live long and healthy lives with sustained antiretroviral
therapy. EGPAF focuses on ensuring that every child is
not only protected from HIV, but also promptly diagnosed
and initiated on lifelong treatment when infected. In this
past year, EGPAF worked hand-in-hand with supported
countries to adapt 2013 WHO treatment guidelines, train
health workers, and expand pediatric care and treatment
at thousands of supported PMTCT and HIV care and
treatment facilities. We also focused on greater availability
of HIV testing and linkage to care in child wellness centers.
In 2014, EGPAF trained health workers in nine countries to
confidently provide testing and treatment to infants and
children in immunization sites, under-5 clinics, and nutrition
centers. We also ensured that these sites were equipped
with HIV test kits and medications.
14 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
James
Pursey/EGPAF,
Every time you feel like
you are losing hope,
remember me.
“
”
“If I Take My Medication Correctly,
I Will Be Healthy for Many Years”
Kevin
Ouma/EGPAF,
2015
When Jake Glaser spoke at Kwamo Secondary School
in Homa Bay, Kenya, just days before World’s AIDS Day
2014, Jessica Atieno hung on his every word. After all,
he might as well have been telling her story. Like Jake,
Jessica was born HIV-positive—and, like Jake, Jessica
has high ambitions. “Although I love and excel in sciences,
I would like to pursue international relations,” she said.
Jake Glaser, the son of Elizabeth Glaser, had traveled
to Homabay County to meet frontline health workers
who are ensuring that HIV is not transmitted to children
and that children living with HIV are enrolled in and
adhering to lifelong antiretroviral treatment.
More than one-quarter of the adults in Homabay are
living with HIV. Despite that high rate, EGPAF’s prevention
efforts have been successful: Nearly all babies are being
born HIV-free in the health facilities that EGPAF supports.
However, a sizable group of children is still living with
HIV. Jake was eager to meet those children—to learn
more about their challenges and encourage them to “live
positively” by adhering to treatment and staying healthy.
Jake told the children that he had not been expected to
live past his tenth birthday, “but twenty years later, I am
still alive and healthy.”
“Every time you feel like you are losing hope, remember
me,” he told them. “Together with millions like us across
the world, we are all doing the same thing every single
day—fighting to stay alive.”
Jessica said that Jake’s courage gives her “hope that I if
take my medication correctly, I will be healthy for many
years.” EGPAF now supports half of the more than 6,000
HIV-positive children on treatment in Homabay County.
Jake Glaser
EGPAF Ambassador
2014 Annual Report 15
Children Living With HIV
Thrive With Psychosocial Support
EGPAF understands that HIV program implementation
must create an enabling environment to promote
treatment and access to medicine. We offer child- and
adolescent-specific psychosocial support programs in
nine countries. Ariel Camps (named for Elizabeth Glaser’s
daughter, who lost her own battle to HIV) are implemented
throughout these countries in close association within
care and treatment centers for children and youth. These
clubs enable HIV-positive children and teenagers to learn
more about their diagnosis and treatment, while also
creating a peer forum in which they can creatively express
and combat fear and stigma.
This holistic approach to pediatric HIV care and
treatment has resulted in improvements in retention and
adherence to HIV treatment throughout childhood and
adolescence—ensuring that the children we care for and
treat through supported programs are capable of living
a long and healthy lives. Through these approaches,
Elizabeth’s dream lives on.
James
Pursey/EGPAF,
2009
16 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Increased access to comprehensive HIV services and the elimination of pediatric HIV cannot be achieved and sustained
without strong national health systems. EGPAF works hand in hand with governments to build capacity and implement
health services. We work with local organizations to build financial, operational, and technical capacity and to promote
local ownership.
2014 PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS
Strengthened Health Systems
Improve the Delivery of Health Services
to Women, Children, and Families
James
Pursey/EGPAF
2014 Annual Report 17
In 2011, as part of EGPAF’s commitment to sustainable
HIV programs and with support from the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), EGPAF launched
three independent national affiliates through an innovative
affiliation model:
• Fondation Ariel Glaser pour la Lutte contre le Sida
Pédiatrique (Côte d’Ivoire)
• Fundação Ariel Glaser Contra o SIDA Pediátric
(Mozambique)
• Ariel Glaser Pediatric AIDS Healthcare Initiative
(Tanzania)
EGPAF and these affiliates share a mutual mission of
eliminating pediatric HIV and AIDS, and each organization
works to achieve this mission in locally specific ways.
While sharing the EGPAF brand and logo, EGPAF affiliates
are genuine country-owned organizations, governed by
independent national boards of directors. In 2014, the
EGPAF affiliates celebrated their fourth year. All three
organizations have quickly become among the most
impactful and respected organizations in their countries.
Since they began operations, the three organizations
have collectively supported more than 740 health
facilities, reached more than 1.5 million women with
PMTCT services, and started more than 285,000 clients
on HIV treatment. We recognize the interdependence
between our organizations and our partners and
share knowledge and best practices to increase the
sustainability of programs so that, together, we will
achieve an HIV-free generation.
EGPAF’s
National Affiliates
In just three years, Fundação
Ariel Glaser Contra o SIDA
Pediátrico has grown from
one staff member to 98 and
currently supports 190 sites in
Mozambique. We have tested
more than 300,000 people
for HIV and are providing
more than 110,000 people
with antiretroviral therapy.
“
”
Paula Vaz, M.D., PH. D.
Executive director,
Fundação Ariel Glaser
Contra o SIDA Pediátrico
in Mozambique
18 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Research
Our Promise:
To advance research
and innovation to
prevent, treat, and end
pediatric HIV/AIDS
James
Pursey/EGPAF,
2012
Since its inception, EGPAF has demonstrated global leadership in
pediatric AIDS research. We support innovative projects, collaborate
with the brightest minds, and bridge gaps within the medical and
research communities—to ensure that children, mothers, and families
in the areas of the world hardest hit by HIV are served with the best
medical information and practices.
There is still no cure for HIV, so research toward a cure remains
a high priority for EGPAF. Finding the best treatments for children
in low-resource locations is another top priority. EGPAF-supported
research around the world seeks to improve HIV prevention, care,
and treatment; identify better technologies and interventions that
can strengthen program implementation; train international research
leaders to respond to the virus in children and adults; and pursue the
development of a HIV vaccine.
Because of our work at nearly 7,800 of health care sites in 14 supported
high-prevalence countries, we are able to offer research-based
innovations to the families that need them by influencing local policy
and practices. During 2014, EGPAF led 28 active research projects.
2014 Annual Report 19
In 2014, EGPAF joined a prestigious consortium of leading HIV research organizations under the Population Council and
won the U.S. Agency for International Development’s Strengthening Operational AIDS Research (SOAR) central award
for research funding. Other partners include Johns Hopkins University, the University of North Carolina, the Futures
Group, and the Avenir (formerly the Futures) Institute. Under Project SOAR, EGPAF will take the lead in studies related
to prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) and pediatric HIV care and treatment. In 2014, EGPAF
began work on two studies focused on improvements in maternal, newborn, and child health (MNCH) and PMTCT
programming in Lesotho.
2014 RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS
Strengthening Operational
AIDS Research (Project SOAR)
Heather
Mason/EGPAF,
2014
20 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
This multicountry study, funded by the Department of
Foreign Affairs, Trade, and Development Canada, is testing
the effectiveness of community-level interventions used to
improve maternal and child health (MCH) and prevention
of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) uptake and
retention in Zimbabwe, Swaziland, and Uganda.
In 2014, the Advancing Community-Level Action for
Improving MCH/PMTCT (ACCLAIM) study team gathered
formative interview data from community members,
community leaders, and health care workers across these
three countries.
The data gathered and assessed indicated substantial
knowledge gaps and unsafe health practices, particularly
among men, regarding PMTCT and MNCH. It also
highlighted differences in beliefs and health service
utilization and barriers among the countries. Interventions
targeting community mechanisms (community leaders or
community-focused health workers) are being rolled out
and evaluated across locations, informed by these initial
relevant study findings.
2014 RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS
Advancing Community-Level
Action for Improving MNCH/PMTCT
(ACCLAIM project)
Eric
Bond/EGPAF,
2015
2014 Annual Report 21
Justin Pollara, Ph.D., a researcher at Duke University, is the
2014 recipient of the Susie Zeegen Postdoctoral Award,
a flexible research grant providing financial support for
the research of immunological or virologic innovations to
eliminate HIV. Pollara is exploring the possibility of curing
HIV infection in infants through monoclonal antibodies.
Despite the advances in understanding HIV over the
past 30 years, a cure for the infection continues to elude
researchers. Pollara is among the new generation of
scientists who are intent upon discovering a vulnerability
within HIV that will lead to its elimination.
“We want to use antibodies that can find HIV-infected cells
and then recruit other cells in the immune system to kill
them. This is an approach to actually curing HIV,” says
Pollara. “The model that I am using is to identify these
antibodies and to test them in vitro [outside the body]
with umbilical cord blood, which is the best surrogate for
pediatric blood.” If Pollara’s research is successful, it may be
instrumental in curing HIV in children and, eventually, adults.
2014 RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS
Susie Zeegen Postdoctoral Award
We’ve come a long way, but we
still have, worldwide, more than
a quarter million new pediatric
HIV infections each year. I think
this is an area where we can dig
our feet in and push back.
“
”
Justin Pollara, PH. D.
2014 recipient of the
Susan Zeegen
Postdoctoral Award
EGPAF
22 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
When Elizabeth Glaser discovered that the medicines prolonging her
own life were unavailable to her young daughter, Ariel, because they
had not yet been tested on children, she became one of the first
persons to champion the needs of children living with HIV. Building
on Elizabeth’s legacy, EGPAF’s public policy and advocacy team
works with policymakers around the world to continue the work she
started, advocating for the best public policies for children, women,
and families infected with and affected by HIV and AIDS.
Today, EGPAF works with a variety of key stakeholders to make
pediatric HIV and AIDS priorities on the global health agenda, with
a particular focus on prevention of mother-to-child transmission of
HIV (PMTCT) and pediatric care and treatment issues. In creating the
most advantageous political and social environment for support of
EGPAF’s priorities, over time the team has developed multiple layers
of engagement in the United States, Africa, and Europe.
Building on our successful U.S.-based advocacy work, the team now
works with regional African entities and coalitions—such as the African
Union and the Organization of African First Ladies Against HIV/AIDS—
to prioritize elimination of pediatric HIV. It is also pursuing efforts in
Europe to ensure that United Nations commitments to children are
met. The events highlighted in subsequent pages illustrate two of
the ways that EGPAF championed the rights of children, mothers, and
families in 2014.
EGPAF,
2014
Public
Policy &
Advocacy
Our Promise:
To advocate for global,
national, and local
policies, resources, and
partnerships to end
pediatric HIV/AIDS
2014 Annual Report 23
The global health community could be underreporting HIV
prevalence as a cause of child death due to a growing
gap between child and adult diagnosis and treatment,
according to an expert panel convened on June 24,
2014, to commemorate EGPAF’s 25th anniversary. The
roundtable included Ambassador Deborah Birx, M.D.,
the U.S. global AIDS coordinator; Rajiv Shah, M.D., former
administrator of the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID); and Deborah Persaud, M.D., of the
Johns Hopkins Children’s Center, a former Elizabeth Glaser
Scientist awardee. Michael Gerson, op-ed columnist for
The Washington Post, moderated the roundtable.
Underreporting of pediatric HIV prevalence creates an
“insidious effect of less political and financial support
for HIV programs that target children,” said EGPAF
President Chip Lyons. One possible solution, suggested
USAID Administrator Rajiv Shah, would be to invest more
in mapping—so that global health programs and the
national and subnational governments they support can
better “understand the market” for the services they seek
to provide.
If organizations can use mapping and data visualizations to
identify where pregnant mothers and babies are not being
served for HIV, Shah explained, then they can probably
assume that those populations are in need of a variety of
other health services—many of which are complicated by
the immune system deficiencies posed by HIV.
Children can be more difficult to diagnose, and the stigma
associated with HIV in many parts of the world often
dissuades parents from seeking testing and treatment.
That means, according to Lyons, that many of the children
believed to have died from causes like diarrhea, pneumonia,
and infections, are actually undiagnosed victims of HIV.
EGPAF,
2014
2014 PUBLIC POLICY & ADVOCACY HIGHLIGHTS
Policy Roundtable:
What’s Next in Ending Pediatric AIDS
The 2.6 million children who
are living with HIV right now,
those children are the AIDS-
free future. Our next challenge
is ensuring that we have the
health care infrastructure and
systems in place to get these kids
the medicines they need to live
healthy lives and ensure they
don’t pass the virus onto others.
“
”
Dr. Lynne Mofenson
EGPAF Senior Technical
Advisor on HIV
24 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
On March 17, 2014, EGPAF and the Inter-Parliamentarian
Union (IPU) hosted an event for parliamentarians from
around the world to discuss the importance of ensuring
access to treatment for children living with HIV. The event,
which took place during the IPU’s 130th Assembly in
Geneva, Switzerland, featured the launch of EGPAF’s new
pediatric treatment video, “Until No Child Has AIDS.”
Representatives from countries most affected by HIV
and AIDS attended the EGPAF/IPU event, which gave
parliamentarians and HIV experts the opportunity to discuss
the best methods to ensure increased pediatric access to
HIV treatment.
Special emphasis was placed on parliamentarians’ role,
as outlined in a new IPU-EGPAF brief for parliamentarians,
“Increasing Children’s Access to HIV Treatment.”
Thabitha Khumalo, a member of parliament from Zimbabwe
and vice president of the IPU’s Advisory Group on HIV/
AIDS and Maternal, Newborn, and Child Health spoke
of her own experiences in witnessing the toll that HIV is
taking on children in Africa—and the difficulties in ensuring
that they have access to medicines that are child-friendly
and palatable.
“We risk sentencing a generation of children to death if we
do not do more to ensure their right to the medications that
will help keep them alive and healthy,” she said. “These
children are the same ones who could one day be sitting in
our seats in parliament—but only if we give them a chance.”
Dr. Francesca Celletti, EGPAF’s director of Health Systems
Strengthening, explained that when it comes to expanding
access to HIV treatment for children, the world is lagging.
“With children, we are where we were about 10 to 15 years
ago with adult treatment. We can and should do better,” said
Celletti. “We need to be where the children are—in primary
health care centers and in the communities—ensuring
that they are diagnosed and treated effectively with
appropriate medications.”
Parliamentarians are Crucial Allies
2014 PUBLIC POLICY & ADVOCACY HIGHLIGHTS
We risk sentencing a generation
of children to death if we do not
do more to ensure their right to
the medications that will help
keep them alive and healthy.
“
”
Thabitha Khumalo
Parliamentarian
Zimbabwe
2014 Annual Report 25
Thanks to the dedication and collaboration of donors and partners
like you, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF)
is one of the largest providers of prevention of mother-to-child
transmission of HIV (PMTCT) services worldwide and a global leader
in the effort to end AIDS in children. Since EGPAF’s founding more
than 25 years ago, new HIV infections in the United States have
declined by 95 percent and new infections in children worldwide
have declined by 58 percent.
Your Impact
26 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Mary K. Allen
Mary K. Allen is one of EGPAF’s 2014 generous bequest
donors. In 1991, as a busy mother of four young children,
Mary discovered Elizabeth Glaser’s story in People
magazine. The account of the Glaser family’s journey
affected Mary in a profound way that is still with her
today. Mary felt as though she could relate to the
powerlessness that Elizabeth and her husband, Paul, must
have experienced in losing their precious daughter, Ariel,
to AIDS.
After Elizabeth’s death, Mary vowed that if an opportunity
ever arose for her to help EGPAF, she would do so. Three
years later, in 1997, that opportunity came. As part of a
Charitable Remainder Trust settlement, she was able to
designate EGPAF to be one of the principle beneficiaries
of her trust. Mary is gratified to be able to join EGPAF’s
fight to end pediatric AIDS, all in Elizabeth’s name.
The Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Legacy Society
EGPAF is proud to announce the launch of its Legacy
Society, a program that honors donors who have
made a planned gift to EGPAF. This dedicated group of
donors makes a lasting impact by helping EGPAF end
pediatric HIV/AIDS through our research, advocacy,
and prevention and treatment programs.
To recognize our donors’ commitment and acknowledge
their legacy, EGPAF offers several benefits of
membership to our Legacy Society:
• Recognition in the Annual Report as a member of
the EGPAF Legacy Society
• Invitations to Special Events
• Planned Giving Updates throughout the year
• Each new member will receive an individualized
letter of thanks from EGPAF President and CEO,
Charles J. Lyons, along with a special recognition gift
To learn more about EGPAF’s Planned Giving program
please visit pedaids.myplannedgift.org.
Benjamin
Pascoe,
2015
Today, when life seems difficult, I try
to remember Elizabeth’s fighting spirit
and the worthwhile purpose that her
life encompassed for me 24 years ago
when I happened to read her amazing
story. Elizabeth Glaser’s promise to her
own children is now EGPAF’s promise
to all the children of the world.
“
”
Mary K. Allen
EGPAF Legacy Donor
Our Generous Donors
2014 Annual Report 27
The McCune family, Drs. Mike and Karen, with their
daughters, Emma and Louise, are an integral part of
EGPAF’s continued growth. Mike serves as the founding
member of EGPAF’s Legacy Society, a recognition
program to honor donors who have made planned gifts
to EGPAF. Mike first became involved with EGPAF in the
early 1990s when he was invited to a Pediatric AIDS
Foundation think tank and met founders Elizabeth Glaser,
Susan DeLaurentis, and Susie Zeegen. He has witnessed
EGPAF’s incredible growth over the years, both as a
researcher in the field and, eventually, as a member of
the EGPAF Board of Directors.
Over the past few years, both Emma and Louise have
participated in Dance Marathon events—EGPAF’s
collegiate fundraising program, which also raises
awareness about the importance of the fight against
HIV/AIDS. Emma was the number one fundraiser at
the University of California Los Angeles and tied as the
number one fundraiser in the nation in the 2014-2015
school year. As one of the top fundraisers, Emma had
the opportunity to see EGPAF’s work first hand. In the
summer of 2015, she travelled to Tanzania to view
EGPAF’s country programs and meet the health workers
who are fighting HIV on the front lines. Mike describes
his family’s dedication to EGPAF’s mission: “For me, there
is an underlying desire to serve, to help, and to bring
comfort to those around us. Each in her own way, my
daughters are living their lives like this now—and I am
proud of them for that. The future of EGPAF is incredibly
important to me and my family.”
The McCune Family
“For me, there is an underlying desire
to serve, to help, and to bring comfort
to those around us. Each in her own
way, my daughters are living their
lives like this now—and I am proud
of them for that. The future of EGPAF
is incredibly important to me and
my family.
“
”
EGPAF
Joseph (Mike) McCune, MD, PhD
Professor of Medicine
Chief, Division of Experimental Medicine
University of California San Francisco
Dr. Mike McCune with his youngest daughter, Emma
28 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
To change a child’s life today: It’s a powerful, succinct
mission, and it’s the basic motive for the U.S. jewelry
industry’s commitment to helping children in need by
annually supporting EGPAF as a Legacy Charity since 1999.
Jewelers for Children (JFC) recognized the urgent
call to save children from pediatric HIV and AIDS, and
became an EGPAF supporter as we were beginning a
monumental, international expansion of our programmatic
work. JFC helped EGPAF provide lifesaving care and
treatment services to countless mothers, children, and
families around the world.
In 2014, JFC committed $600,000 to further EGPAF’s
mission to end AIDS in children worldwide and presented
the donation at its Annual Facets of Hope Dinner in Las
Vegas, Nevada. JFC also generously supported EGPAF’s
fall/winter match promotion, which helped us raise more
than $117,000 at the end of 2014.
By uniting the generous charitable efforts of the varied
businesses and individuals in the jewelry industry, JFC has
donated more than $9.7 million to further its programmatic
and research work. In the 15 years of our partnership,
JFC can certainly be proud of the enormous number of
children’s lives they have helped change.
David Rocha, executive director of Jewelers for Children,
reflects on JFC’s continued partnership with EGPAF: “JFC
was founded on the idea that it is possible to change a
child’s life today and EGPAF dramatically changes the
lives of women and children living with HIV each and
every day. We are proud to support that mission.”
JFC’s partnership with EGPAF demonstrates how the
joint power of many can make such an impactful change
in the lives of children in need. EGPAF greatly values
the support of JFC and its members as we continue our
mission to achieve an AIDS-free generation.
This is more than
just a donation, it’s a
chance to save lives.
“
”
David Rocha
Executive Director,
Jewelers for Children
Jewelers for Children
Our Generous Donors
2014 Annual Report 29
The Walsh Family
Tom and Patricia Walsh are EGPAF supporters with a
special story. Their daughter, Marieka, is a U.S. Peace
Corps volunteer assigned to EGPAF’s community-based
HIV care and treatment program in the Guijá District of
Mozambique’s Gaza Province, an area devastated by
floods in 2013. Marieka’s work since 2013 has helped to
restore and reinvigorate some of EGPAF’s programs in the
area. This has included educating expectant mothers about
the prevention of HIV transmission and improvements
in family nutrition, starting support groups to improve
adherence to treatment, and engaging in other community
activities to sensitize people to HIV/AIDS.
Through the work of Marieka, the mission of EGPAF is a
continuous inspiration to Tom and Patricia as they learn
firsthand about the challenges being faced courageously
by so many.
Through the work of their daughter,
Marieka, the mission of EGPAF is
a continuous inspiration to Tom
and Patricia Walsh as they learn
firsthand about the challenges being
faced courageously by so many.
The Walsh Family
Marieka Walsh (bottom right) with a peer educator training group at
the District Health Center of Guijá, in Mozambique’s Gaza Province
Marieka with peer educators in the town of Chibabel, Mozambique
30 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Greater Than $1 million
• The Children’s Investment Fund
Foundation
• Department for International
Development
• Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade
and Development
• PATH
• Swedish International Development
Cooperation Agency
• United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF)
• U.S. Agency for International
Development
• U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention
$500,000 - $999,999
• Chemonics
• Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
• Conrad N. Hilton Foundation
• Jewelers for Children
• John Snow, Inc.
• Oak Foundation
• Vale
• ViiV Healthcare
$250,000 - $499,999
• Absolute Return for Kids
• Mary K. Allen
• Ermee Irene Dixon Revocable Trust
• Organization for Public Health
Intervention and Development
$100,000 - $249,999
• Anonymous
• Willow Bay and Bob Iger
• Cameroon Baptist Convention Health
Services
• Communications Workers of America
• Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis
and Malaria
• Drs. Nicholas S. Hellmann and Susan D.
Desmond-Hellmann
• Johnson & Johnson
• Population Council
$50,000 - $99,999
• American Cancer Society
• Cepheid
• Gilead Sciences, Inc.
• Russ and Mary Beth Hagey
• National Institutes of Health
• Nordstrom, Inc.
• Partners in Hope
• Ronald O. Perelman and Deluxe
Entertainment Services Group
• Ressler/Gertz Family Foundation
• The Walt Disney Company
$10,000 - $49,999
• AbbVie
• ActivisionBlizzard
• The Ahmanson Foundation
• Anonymous
• Debbie and Mark Attanasio
• Peter and Maryly Benzian
• Bloomberg
• Jim and Debbie Burrows
• Franklin J. Carmel
• Johnny Carson Foundation
• Carlos Carrazana and Thomas Stewart
• CBS
• Jane Chung and Robert M. Nagle
• Clearpath Solutions Group
• Cole-Crone Family Foundation
• Elisabetta Dami
• pamella roland devos
• Mollie, Hayden, Jordan, and Jackson
Dunn
• FHI360
• David and Marianna Fisher
• Calista Flockhart and Harrison Ford
• The Foley Family Foundation
• Estate of Beatriz Foster
• Estate of Kevin S. Gill
• Global Health Corps
• The Gruen Living Trust
• Independent Charities of America
• Johns Hopkins University
• The Marilyn and Jeffrey Katzenberg
Foundation
• The Randi and Clifford Lane Foundation
• Lear Family Foundation
• Macha Research Trust
• The Malkin Family
• Barry Malkin
• Judd D. Malkin and Katherine Chez-
Malkin
• Randi Malkin-Steinberger and Harlan
Steinberger
• Stephen and Karen Malkin
• Edward D. and Anna Mitchell Family
Foundation
• Rachel Katherine Moore Trust
• Jerry and Ann Moss
• National Basketball Association
• The Nersesian Family Fund
• Orinoco Foundation
• Greg and Patty Penske
• Population Services International
• Louis and Harold Price Foundation
• Shout! Factory, LLC
• Sun Shine On You Foundation
• Toyota
• United States Department of State
Our Generous Donors
2014 Annual Report 31
• VIACOM
• Wasserman Foundation
• Patricia A. and George W. Wellde, Jr.
• Wolf Films
• World Health Organization
• The Wunderkinder Foundation
• YourCause, LLC
• Bobbi and Walt Zifkin
$5,000 - $9,999
• The Adam Aron Family
• Anonymous
• The Apatow-Mann Family Foundation
• Brotman Foundation of California
• The Clinton Family Foundation
• Conference America, Inc.
• Crystal Family Trust
• CWPS
• Senator Christopher Dodd and Jackie
Marie Clegg
• Barbara J. Easterling
• Friedlander Family Fund
• Patrick and Cynthia Gartland
• Dr. Laura Guay and Mike W. O’Hare
• Anne E. Gurecki Trust
• ICAP at Columbia University
• Grant Imahara
• Paul Tudor Jones II and Sonia M. Jones
• Deborah Klee and Lawrence D.
Weinberg
• Lionsgate
• Charles J. Lyons and Claire H. Gerhard
• Lockton
• Longo Toyota-Scion-Lexus
• Louise P. Hackett Foundation
• MAXIMUS Foundation
• Drs. Joseph McCune and Karen Smith
McCune
• Milken Family Foundation
• Mylan
• Stuart and Ginger Pape
• Pingtone Communications, Inc.
• Harry and Miranda Shapiro
• R.J. and Rumiko Simonds
• Justin B. Smith
• Standard Bank of South Africa
• Thomas and Patricia Walsh
• The Weil Family
• Caren R. Wishner
• Neil Zevnik
$2,500 - $4,999
• Nigel and Cristen Barker
• Dorothy G. Bender Foundation
• BET Networks
• John and Nicole Buono
• Lori and Harper Chozen
• Cinema Makeup School
• Kathleen Cravero-Kristoffersson
• Brian Early
• Elsberg Family Foundation
• Estee Lauder, Inc.
• Thomas M. Fontana
• Jennifer Fox and Thomas Murray
• Susan Geraci
• Hauptman Family Foundation
• Bucky Hazan
• Lori M. Johnson
• Paul and Lisa Johnson
• Kadrovach-Duckworth Family
Foundation
• Helen and Joseph Komarek Foundation
• Peter and Deborah Lamm
• Lilongwe Medical Relief Fund Trust
• Gordon H. and Karen M. Millner Family
Foundation
• The Morgridge Family Foundation
• David and Sabina Nathanson
• PayPal Giving Fund
• John and Shireen Sabat
• Kathi Jean Stafford
• The Margot Sundheimer Foundation
• Rich Thigpen
• Donald J. Tweedie
• Christa Waltersdorf
• World Bank Community Connections
Fund
$1,000 - $2,499
• Abbott Fund
• Angry Bee Juice
• Phillip & Maria Baker
• Samantha S. Bass
• Barbara Bell Trust
• Benevity Community Impact Fund
• Rita B. Braver and Robert Bruce Barnett
• Gary D. Brown
• Jake and Donna Carpenter
• Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc.
• Sara L. Christison-Rino
• Lou Contreras
• Ruth F. Cook Charitable Fund
• Dr. Joseph Demattia
• Henry Dotterer
• Edison International
• Carlos Effio
• Kathryn Evans
• Andrew D. and Audrey R. Feiner
• Robert S. and Jan W. Feldman
• Jonathan and Samantha Firestone
• Gregory P. Fisher
• Paul G. Florack
• Michael T. Fries
• Simon Michael and Lori G. Furie
32 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
• Matthew Garrett
• Anthony Joseph and Susan Egbert
Gilroy
• GlaxoSmithKline Foundation
• Jill Glazer
• Allen J. and Deborah Grubman
• Alex Guira
• Joy K. Hallinan
• Henri Bendel
• Annie Laurie Hill
• Andrew Ho
• Sarah Hodges
• Doug Horner
• Craig and Andrea Horowitz
• IBM Employee Services Center
• Jehangir Dinyar Irani
• Thomas Jackson
• Nathan P. Jacobs Foundation
• Robert Wold Johnson, Jr. Fund of the
Princeton Area Community Foundation
• Peter and Trish Karlin
• Steve and Wayne Kass
• Bart D. and Roberta F. Kaufman
• Richard and Deborah Kereluk
• Joseph C. and Paula A. Kerger
• David A. and Paulette S. Kessler
• Steven L. and Barbara R. Kessler
• Bradley J. Kiley
• Kingston Technology
• Kleiner Cohen Foundation
• Ken Konopa
• R.G. Laha Foundation
• Amnon and Yael Landan
• Matt and Annette Lauer
• Michael H. and Wilma S. Leftin
• The Anne Claire Lester Foundation, Inc.
• Levine Family Charitable Foundation
• Heung Wing Li
• Jennifer T. Li - Hochberg and Jason A.
Hochberg
• George Lucas Family Foundation
• Maggio + Kattar
• John and Joan Malak
• Drs. Stephanie L. Marglin and James
Edward Hughes
• MAXimum Research, Inc.
• Tom and Catherine McBeath
• Lynn M. McCloskey
• Michael and Diane McGuire
• Antoinette McGovern
• Merck Company Foundation
• Dr. Lavonne L. Michaud and Gregory
M. Bloom
• Jason Mida
• Gregg and Debra Oppenheimer
• Sally G. Palmbaum
• Laura Pennycuff and Sander A. Glick
• Precast Manufacturing Company LLC
• Victoria Orso
• Amy and Joe Perella Charitable Fund
• George Petras
• Mary Ellen Powers and Daniel C. Sauls
• William Prady
• Prime Healthcare
• Claudia Pruett
• Mary Putnam
• Carole Norden
• Richard and Marianne Reinisch
Foundation
• Dr. Patrick A. Robinson and Linda
Robinson
• Robert and Ann Rowlands
• Peter and Sally Rudoy
• Lynne G. Rumery
• Stanley E. Schlinger
• Ira and Barbara Schreck
• Michael S. and Andrea C. Sher
• Margie Sherman
• Jyoti Shrivastava
• Matthew and Rachel Marie Sirignano
• Douglas A. and Kathryn A. Slocum
• Space Exploration Technologies
• Spider Management Company
• Daniela Spreafico
• Peter and Leslie Steinberg
• Daniel B. and Lori M. Steuer
• Andy and Ashley Stewart
• Dr. Susan G. Stuart
• Union Privilege
• United Way of Central & Northeastern
Connecticut
• United Way of the National Capital Area
• Valiant Foundation, Inc.
• Alex and Martha Wallau
• Wells Fargo Community Support
Campaign
• Sol Weiss
• Gregory S. Werlinich
• Clifford A. and Deborah J. White
$500 - $999
• Abbott Employee Giving Campaign
• Alan I. and Brenda Abramson
• Dr. Cathrien Alons
• American Express Employee Campaign
• American Services Corporation
• John S. and Sandra L. Armstrong
• Arista Group
• Naseem Athari
• Alexandra Balmaseda
• Bruce W. and Jean M. Beaton
• Dr. Annika Bernstein
Our Generous Donors
2014 Annual Report 33
• Blueprint Test Preparation
• Matthew Bondurant
• Sophie and Arthur Brody Foundation
• Byram Hills High School
• Kerry Carfagno
• Dr. Teresa C. Carson
• CIGNA Corporation
• Nancy Cohen
• College Auxiliary Services, Inc.
• Angelica Crane-Dosik and Richard M.
Dosik
• Charles D. and Alice V. Curran
• DKG Foundation
• Anne Dowling
• Maria C. Ellis
• Dr. Geoffrey Evans
• Karen Gail Georgatos
• Mark H. German
• Christopher C. and Nancy M. Gibbs
• Linda Glazer
• Allen E. and Hope M. Gordon
• The Greater Cincinnati Foundation
• Gary L. Greenberg
• Lee W. and Rachel S. Greenberg
• Deborah E. Greenspan
• Dr. Nancy L. Haigwood and Andy
McNiece
• Michael R. Hawkins
• Peter Hoffman
• Human Rights Campaign
• Joshua Humphries
• Latha Jayakumar
• William Jamieson
• JN Trust Dated 12/15/93
• James P. and Judith G. Kleinberg
• John S. and James L. Knight Foundation
• Edward Kovelsky
• David K. and Michelle Kramer
• Tamara Krause
• Jill Reed Lagatta
• Dr. Jonathan Lampert
• Deidre Lee and Paul Harry
• John and Carol Levy
• Craig P. Lewis
• LF Sportswear, Inc.
• Morris and Zita Libermensch
• Tess Lombardo
• Dawn Long
• Taino Lopez
• Chi Ly
• Will C. Mathews
• McGladrey Foundation
• Microsoft Matching Gifts Program
• Mixology Clothing Company
• Ellen Morton
• Douglas Naversen
• Norm Reeves Honda Superstore
• Philip D. O’Brien
• John O’Neil
• Lisa A. Parrott
• Robin Paule
• Terrence M. and Marsha A. Quinn
• Christopher Radko, Division of Rauch
Industries
• Thomas Reidy
• RKR Charitable Fund
• Sheryl Rosenbaum
• Richard Rosenblatt
• David and Linda Ross
• Thomas L. Safran
• Rich Sambado
• Joanne E. Sanfilippo
• Catherine Schepis
• Lawrence F. and Phyllis R. Selter
• Michael J. Shapiro
• Paul Siems
• Wesley M. and Lisa A. Smith
• William D. and Nancy M. Snapper
• Somerset Hospital
• Michele Sperling
• Kat Stapp
• Julie Stanton
• Rosalind Stubenberg
• Evelyn P. Tomaszewski
• Huyanh T. Ton
• Douglas H. Tucker
• United Methodist Women
• United Way California Capital Region
• Carmen Utreras
• Jody Uttal Gold and Jeffrey Alan Gold
• David Uyttendaele
• VCS Group
• Preeti Verma
• Dan Waldman
• Peter Wantuch
• The Waterman Foundation Inc.
• Greg Wendling
• Michael Wolf
• Richard M. and Karen A. Wolfen
• Anne Elizabeth Wynn
• Mary G. Yancy
• Daniel Ymar
2014 Fundraising Partners
• Alpha Epsilon Phi
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Alpha Gamma at
George Washington University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Alpha Mu at
University of Maryland
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Beta Kappa at
University of California at Irvine
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Beta Zeta at
34 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
University of Central Florida
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Alpha Lambda at
University of Arizona
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Beta Eta at University
of California at San Diego
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Beta Iota Chapter at
Stanford University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Epsilon Beta at
Brooklyn College
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Epsilon Epsilon
Indiana University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Epsilon Phi at
University of Iowa
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Epsilon Theta at
American University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Iota Chapter at
Syracuse University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Mu at University of
Illinois
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Phi Chi at University
of Delaware
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Phi Kappa Chapter at
Rowan University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Phi Kappa Psi Stanford
University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Phi Mu at Binghamton
University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Phi Phi at State
University of New York at New Paltz
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Phi Sigma at Wayne
State University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Phi Tau Chapter at
State University of New York, Plattsburgh
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Sigma at University of
Wisconsin
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Psi at Washington
University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Rho at Ohio State
University
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Tulane
• Alpha Epsilon Phi - Zeta at New York
University
• Baldwin Wallace University Dance
Marathon
• State University of New York at Brockport
Dance Marathon
• College of the Holy Cross Dance
Marathon
• Columbia University Dance Marathon
• Communications Workers of America
Local 2109
• Communications Workers of America
Local 3204
• Communications Workers of America
Local 32035
• Communications Workers of America
Local 7777
• Communications Workers of America
Local 7026
• Communications Workers of America
Local 9400
• Communications Workers of America
Local 9505
• Firstgiving, Inc.
• Global Impact
• Just Give
• Network for Good
• Pediatric AIDS Coalition at University of
California, Los Angeles
• Razoo Foundation
• University of California, Berkeley Dance
Marathon
• University of Chicago Dance Marathon
In-Kind Supporters
• AKASHA
• Along Came Mary
• BEACON Catering and Events
• Kathryn Boren
• The Chester
• The Coca Cola Company
• The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf®
• Gansevoort Hotel Group
• Grandaisy Bakery
• Kirk Myers Fitness and the DogPound
• Luke’s Lobster
• Lululemon
• Shantell Martin
• Annie Preece
• Melissa’s Produce
• (The Mercer) Kitchen
• Michael’s
• Modern Advocate
• Natural Tableware
• ONEHOPE
• Otto Enoteca Pizzeria
• Pink’s Hot Dogs
• Pain D’Avignon
• Sofia Wine Bar
• Sprinkles Cupcakes
• Tara Stiles
• United Airlines
• Uber
• ZOX
Our Generous Donors
2014 Annual Report 35
At its 25th Anniversary Celebration, on June 24, 2014,
EPGAF honored Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi for her
longstanding commitment to an AIDS-free future. Since
the beginning of the epidemic, Leader Pelosi has been an
outspoken advocate for those infected with and affected
by HIV. Her commitment has been critical in advancing the
fight against the disease, seeing firsthand how research,
policies, and communities can act together to make real,
lifesaving change.
“When we are looking for a lawmaker on Capitol Hill to
act on behalf of children living with HIV—and expectant
mothers living with HIV—we know that we can count on
Leader Pelosi, not only for her vote, but for her voice,”
said EGPAF President Charles Lyons in presenting the
Congressional Global Champion Award to Leader Pelosi.
The event was held at the Newseum in Washington, D.C.
25th
Anniversary Celebration
There’s nothing like the
determination of a mother.
When [Elizabeth Glaser] died,
we lost a champion, but her
legacy lives on. We are going
to continue this fight until
no child has AIDS.
“
”
Nancy Pelosi
Democratic Leader
Events
Step Afrika! closed out the Celebration
Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi
36 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
On Sept. 27, 2014, friends of EGPAF turned up for the 20th
Kids 4 Kids (K4K) family festival at the Field House at the
world-famous Chelsea Piers in New York City. Kids of all
ages and their families enjoyed a fun-filled afternoon with
a serious purpose—to raise critical funds for an AIDS-
free generation.
World-renowned fashion photographer and EGPAF board
member Nigel Barker and his wife, Cristen, co-chaired
K4K. In his remarks, Barker called for supporters to sign
EGPAF’s pledge for an AIDS-free generation. Longtime
EGPAF partner Jewelers for Children donated one dollar
for every pledge made at K4K and matched all pledge
donations made during 2014.
Events
Kids Turn Up for Kids
When you realize that 600
children are being born each day
HIV-positive … that number is
obviously way too high, and we
need to do something about it.
“
”
Nigel Barker
EGPAF Board Member
Ben
Asen/Skyhook
Entertainment/SIPA
USA
Rick
Gilbert/SIPA
USA
Kids 4 Kids Co-Chairs, Nigel and Cristen Barker,
with their children, Jasmine and Jack
2014 Annual Report 37
Celebrities, advocates, and long-term friends of Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF) gathered to
celebrate its 25th annual A Time for Heroes family festival on Oct. 19, 2014, at the BookBindery in Culver City, California.
It was fun and games for a serious cause: the event raised funds and awareness for EGPAF’s ongoing effort to achieve
an AIDS-free generation. The festival honored pediatrician Peter Waldstein, M.D., for his longtime commitment to A
Time for Heroes and the work of EGPAF.
Celebrities, Advocates, and
Friends Celebrate 25 Years of Heroes
My mother believed that each
one of us can be a hero, that each
one of us has a role in changing
the world. And together we have
done just that.
“
”
Jake Glaser
EGPAF Ambassador
EGPAF,
2014
EGPAF,
2014
Singer and Actress, Sabrina Carpenter,
performed at A Time for Heroes
Modern Family stars, Julie Bowen and Nolan Gould
Jake Glaser, EGPAF Founders, Susan DeLaurentis and Susie
Zeegen, and EGPAF President and CEO, Charles J. Lyons
celebrated together at A Time for Heroes
38 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
EGPAF Board of Directors
Russ Hagey | Chair
Chief Talent Officer and Partner, Bain & Company
Willow Bay | Co-Chair
(Former Board Member as of March 2015)
Director of the Annenberg School of Journalism,
University of Southern California
Stuart Pape | Co-Vice Chair
Shareholder, Polsinelli
Kathleen Cravero-Kristofferson | Co-Vice Chair
President, Oak Foundation
Annie Hill | Secretary
(Former Board Member as of July 2015)
Secretary/Treasurer, Communications Workers of America
Omar Abdi
Deputy Executive Director, UNICEF
Nigel Barker
Photographer/Creative Director/Filmmaker
Senator Christopher Dodd
Chairman and CEO,
Motion Picture Association of America
Paul Johnson
(Former Board Member as of March 2014)
President and CEO, SP Consulting
Paula Kerger
(Former Board Member as of March 2015)
President and CEO,
Public Broadcasting Service (PBS)
Charles J. Lyons
President and CEO,
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Dr. Joseph (Mike) McCune
(Former Board Member as of March 2015)
Professor of Medicine and
Chief of the Division of Experimental Medicine,
University of California, San Francisco
Justin Smith
CEO, Bloomberg Media Group
George Wellde, Jr.
Vice Chair (retired), Securities Division,
Goldman Sachs & Company
Susie Zeegen
Co-founder,
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Paul Glaser | Honorary Chair
Actor/Director/Producer
2014 Annual Report 39
Senior Leadership Team
Charles J. Lyons
President and Chief Executive Officer
Bradley J. Kiley
Chief Operating Officer
Anja Giphart, MD, MPH
Executive Vice President,
Medical & Scientific Affairs
Trish Karlin
Executive Vice President,
External Affairs & Business Development
Laura Guay, MD
Vice President, Research
Doug Horner
Vice President,
Awards, Compliance &International Operations
Stephen Lee, MD
Vice President,
Program Implementation & Country Management
Jill Mathis
Vice President, New Business Development
Tami Ward-Dahl, SPHR/GPHR
Vice President,
Administration & Human Resources
Catherine Connor
Senior Director, Public Policy & Advocacy
Clare Dougherty
Senior Director, External Affairs
Erica Martin
Director, Office of the President
Nicholas Hellmann, MD
Strategy and Science Advisor
40 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
Financial
Overview
Since its inception, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
(EGPAF) has been dedicated to raising funds to prevent new pediatric
AIDS infections and bringing hope to children, mothers, and families
living with HIV and AIDS. In 2014, EGPAF’s lifesaving programs around
the world grew by more than $6 million, with total revenues of more
than $126 million.
This growth trend is projected to continue in 2015 as EGPAF opens
an office in Cameroon, dramatically expands its programs in Lesotho,
and implements programs to increase the number of HIV-positive
children on treatment in multiple countries.
These revenues represent the contributions of individuals, corporations,
foundations, and international organizations—as well as ongoing
support from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC), and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
through the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).
EGPAF designs each of its programs to ensure that funds are being
deployed to maximize impact and donors are receiving exceptional
value for money. Metrics such as cost per person tested for HIV and cost
per year of HIV treatment help EGPAF analyze the cost of its programs
and continuously improve program efficiency and effectiveness.
Since 2009, EGPAF has actively participated in and contributed to
PEPFAR’s Expenditure Analysis Initiative—which examines program
costs in detail. We place high importance on effective and compliant
financial management. Our financial systems have a variety of checks
and balances to ensure that funds are well managed in the United
States and across our network of country offices in Africa. EGPAF
staff are held to the highest ethical standards and commit to a code
of conduct.
Our financial performance and accountability continue to be recognized
by leading charity-rating organizations. EGPAF’s 2014 financial
statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. The complete audited financial
statements may be viewed on our website (www.pedaids.org).
EGPAF
2014 Annual Report 41
2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY
Statement of Financial Position
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $12,596,859
Contributions and other receivables $6,128,008
Other assets $3,824,337
Total assets $22,549,204
Liabilities and net assets
Total liabilities $15,825,181
Net assets-unrestricted $6,229,082
Net assets-temporarily restricted $416,600
Net assets-permanently restricted $78,341
Total ending net assets $6,724,023
Total liabilities and net assets $22,549,204
Statement of Activities
Public support and revenue
Grants (U.S. government (USG) and non-USG) $122,887,068
Contributions $3,678,353
Other income $146,699
Total public support and revenue $126,712,120
Expenses
Program services
Program implementation $108,177,185
Research $1,745,923
Communications $1,904,247
Public policy $920,151
Program Services subtotal $112,747,506
Management, general, and administrative $10,371,907
New business development $2,034,467
Fundraising $1,656,100
Total Expenses $126,809,980
Contributions receivable write-off $650,000
Changes in net assets $(747,860)
42 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
FIGURE 1. EGPAF REVENUE GROWTH, 2012-2014
FIGURE 2. EGPAF SPENDING BY COUNTRY, 2014*
110,000,000
115,000,000
Tanzania
Mozambique
Kenya
Zimbabwe
Uganda
Lesotho
Cote d’Ivoire
Zambia
DRC
Malawi
Swaziland
Rwanda
2012 2013 2014
120,000,000
125,000,000
130,000,000
140,000,000
135,000,000
122,178,230
120,278,417
24,883,140
21,398,311
15,713,584
11,125,440
9,226,727
8,013,364
7,436,705
6,080,888
5,768,219
5,285,344
4,287,226
1,471,949
126,712,120
* In 2014 EGPAF worked in Cameroon and India through local organizations.
2014 Annual Report 43
Every day, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF)
works to ensure that no HIV-positive mother or mother-to-be lives
without the care and support she requires to ensure her own health
and the health of her child; that no child is burdened with a virus for
which there is treatment, but still no cure; and that countries have
the ability to meet the needs of families and children living with HIV.
EGPAF envisions a day when mothers and families everywhere have
access to the knowledge and tools they need to keep their babies
HIV-free—and themselves alive and healthy. With your support, in
2014, we made steady progress toward fulfilling Elizabeth Glaser’s
promise of a world in which no child has AIDS.
Final Words
44 Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
facebook.com/EGPAF @EGPAF
ELIZABETH GLASER PEDIATRIC AIDS FOUNDATION
1140 CONNECTICUT AVENUE NW, SUITE 200
WASHINGTON, DC 20036
T 202 296 9165
F 202 296 9185
E info@pedaids.org
WWW.PEDAIDS.ORG
