Michael
CREAGEN
iStock
Sasha
Kapadia
Unknown
The German Marshall Fund of the United States (GMF) is
a nonpartisan American public policy and grantmaking
institution dedicated to promoting greater cooperation and
understanding between North America and Europe.
GMF does this by supporting individuals and institutions
working on transatlantic issues, by convening leaders to
discuss the most pressing transatlantic themes, and by
examining ways in which transatlantic cooperation can
address a variety of global policy challenges. In addition, GMF
supports a number of initiatives to strengthen democracies.
Founded in 1972 through a gift from Germany on the 25th
anniversary of the Marshall Plan as a permanent memorial to
Marshall Plan assistance, GMF maintains a strong presence
on both sides of the Atlantic. In addition to its headquarters
in Washington, DC, GMF has seven offices in Europe: Berlin,
Bratislava, Paris, Brussels, Belgrade, Ankara, and Bucharest.
2009 annual report 1
letter from the president 2
CONVENING 4
Halifax International Security Forum
Brussels Forum
Celebrating 1989
GMF Hosts Transatlantic Leaders
The Road to Copenhagen/
Copenhagen Climate Conference
What Does Japan Think?
Stockholm China Forum
What Does Russia Think?
Transatlantic Forum on Migration and Integration
Congress-Bundestag Forum
Mediterranean Policy Program
RESEARCH 15
Transatlantic Academy
Transatlantic Trends 2009
Transatlantic Trends: Immigration 2009
Inside Brussels Podcast Series
On Turkey
Transatlantic Take Series
Economic-Related Policy Research
E-book on Future of Economic Partnership
Agreements
Global Trade Alert
Tim Searchinger’s Biofuels Research in Science
Aid Effectiveness Project
GMF Fellows
NETWORKING 23
Marshall Memorial Fellowship
U.S. Marshall Forum on Transatlantic Affairs
Comparative Domestic Policy Program
Manfred Wörner Seminar
APSA Congressional Fellowship
Peter R. Weitz Journalism Prize Ceremony
GRANTMAKING 27
Strategic Grantmaking
Black Sea Trust for Regional Cooperation
Balkan Trust for Demcracy
Immigration Grantmaking
Economic Policy Grantmaking
Germany-related Grantmaking
PARTNERSHIPS 33
MULTIMEDIA AND PUBLICATION
OUTREACH 35
financialS 36
Editor’s Note: Throughout this annual report, you will see notes in the margins directing you to more
information on the GMF website, Twitter (@gmfus), and other sources. We encourage you to engage
with GMF online.
= Twitter = gmfus.org = FORA online video
2 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Last year, I wrote about optimism for a new start
to the transatlantic relationship. Americans and
Europeans, politicians and regular citizens, heralded
Barack Obama’s inauguration as an opportunity to
renew the transatlantic relationship and create a
more vital and collaborative partnership.
One year later, we are still waiting for tangible
evidence that transatlantic cooperation has been
deepened and strengthened. The continuing
popularity of Barack Obama in Europe has not
produced major policy changes or bold new joint
ventures with Europe. There have been missteps
and missed opportunities on both sides. As I
travel in the United States, Europe, and countries
like India and Japan, disappointment is beginning
to creep in to the voices of politicians and
intellectuals.
The transatlantic agenda is filled with daunting
challenges — Afghanistan, the economy, terrorism,
climate change — so there is no shortage of work to
be done. But American and European policymakers
often have been distracted, disorganized, and
stymied in their attempts to tackle these big issues.
American Presidents always focus on domestic
issues during their first term in office unless
external events force foreign relations onto their
agenda. President Obama has been no different
— the economy and health care took much of his
attention during his first year. He has shown himself
to be an adept leader and manager, but the sheer
enormity of those twin domestic problems has
crowded the space for foreign policy issues. But,
when he has concentrated on international issues,
like Afghanistan and Iraq, European support for his
initiatives has been moderate and sometimes tepid.
Europeans have been overwhelmingly positive
toward Obama and what he represents. While many
in Europe were surprised by his being awarded the
Nobel Prize, almost all would agree that he has
changed America’s image and rhetoric to a style
more appealing to the international community.
GMF’s annual Transatlantic Trends poll showed
an astounding quadrupling of support for the
American president’s foreign policy as we changed
administrations. But even overwhelming European
public support for this dynamic American president
— not to mention a good working-level transatlantic
relationship that has carried over from George W.
Bush’s second term — has not yielded significant
results in terms of support and cooperation from
European governments.
One explanation for this state of affairs is that
some Europeans had unnaturally high hopes for
a President who seemed to think like them. The
President fed these high expectations by making
five major trips to Europe that show how seriously
he takes the transatlantic relationship. But the
American president is still the American president,
no matter how “European” he may seem. His
agenda on Afghanistan, climate change, the
regulation of financial markets, and a dozen other
issues of transatlantic importance will be dictated
by American politics, not international sentiment. As
Europeans realize this simple truth, I expect that the
President’s approval ratings in Europe will decline.
And, if five trips to Europe failed to rally Europeans
around his administration’s goals, he may focus
his time and energy on Asia, especially on China
and other emerging powers in that region that are
increasingly important to the United States.
The move to a strong Asia focus may be driven by
the region’s economic and strategic importance,
but it is abetted by American frustration with
Europe. Finding common ground with the European
Union and its member states can be a challenging
2009 annual report 3
exercise for American policymakers as the process
moves from Brussels to the major capitals and back
to Brussels. The European Union has just adopted
the Lisbon Treaty, which centralizes more power
into the EU, especially in the realm of foreign policy,
and this change may make it easier to develop
transatlantic perspectives on the major issues
of the day. But, it won’t make up for the fact that
Europe has limited capacities and ambitions related
to many of those big challenges, especially in
relation to Asia. While Europe is a major economic
player in India, China, and Japan, it does not have
a comparable role to the United States in relation
to regional security. Europe could have a greater
role in Asia and be an important partner to the
United States on a range of complicated problems.
However, right now, it is often an observer, rather
than a central actor, in this region.
Here at GMF, we are playing an active role in
bringing North Americans and Europeans together
to work on a broad spectrum of transatlantic issues
and to provide depth and context to the debate. In
2009, we launched the Halifax International Security
Forum with the help of the Canadian government.
Paired with our annual Brussels Forum (which will
enter its fifth year in 2010), our large conferences
are central to our mission of bringing transatlantic
— and global — leaders and thinkers together to
strengthen cooperation.
We also do convening on a smaller scale throughout
the year. We are now sponsoring expert dialogues
on Turkey, China, India, and the Mediterranean. We
have helped to organize several meetings focused
on giving journalists and policymakers a deeper look
at the thinking of leading intellectuals in important
countries like Russia and Japan. And, we have also
held many briefings and conversations on climate
change, immigration, trade and development, and a
wide range of foreign policy topics.
GMF has also increased our analytical contributions
to the transatlantic conversation. In the past year,
we published several influential series related
to immigration, climate change, economics, and
foreign policy priorities — written both by in-house
GMF experts and by thinkers and practitioners from
the larger transatlantic community. In the fall, we
launched the Transatlantic Take, a series of op-ed
pieces written by our own experts that both react
to and forecast the transatlantic agenda. We added
video to our multimedia products. If you have not
yet seen some of these publications or multimedia,
I encourage you to visit the GMF website or follow
GMF on Twitter and Facebook.
GMF would not be able to do the work we do
without the support of our partner institutions,
governments, and corporations. We thank them for
their help in fulfilling our mission, even when these
economic times have been difficult. I see it as proof
the transatlantic relationship remains vital, and
that individuals, governments, organizations, and
corporations find the community of common values
worthwhile and worth continuing.
The great hopes for a stronger and bolder
transatlantic alliance may be diminished one year
after the inauguration of Barack Obama, but there is
still a strong underlying feeling that the transatlantic
allies should and could be working together to
address common global and regional challenges.
At GMF, we will continue our work to support that
feeling, to bring people together, and to provide
relevant information so that, optimism or not, the
real work continues to get done. We look forward to
working with you in 2010.
Craig Kennedy
President
Editor’s Note: In 2009, Craig Kennedy was
awarded the Officer’s Cross of the Order of
Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.
4 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Halifax International Security Forum
Building on the successful Brussels Forum model,
GMF held the Halifax International Security Forum
in November in Halifax, Nova Scotia. The inaugural
forum was the first of its kind to be held on the
North American continent and
provided a forum for leading
policymakers, opinion shapers,
scholars, and business leaders from both sides
of the Atlantic to discuss the top global security
challenges facing the transatlantic community. The
forum was organized by GMF with the generous
support of the Government of Canada, including the
Department of National Defense and the Atlantic
Canada Opportunities Agency.
Speakers and panelists included Robert Gates,
U.S. Secretary of Defense; Peter MacKay, Canadian
Defence Minister; Karl-Theodor
Freiherr zu Guttenberg, German
Defense Minister; U.S. Supreme
Court Associate Justice Stephen
Breyer; Canadian Chief Justice
Beverley McLachlin; Pieter De Crem,
Belgian Defense Minister; Admiral
James Stavridis, Supreme Allied Commander for
Europe and Commander of the United States
European Command; Admiral Mark P
. Fitzgerald,
Commander of U.S. Naval Forces Europe and
Africa; General Victor E. Renuart, Jr., Commander
of the United States Northern Command and North
American Aerospace Defense Command; U.S. Under
Secretary of State for Arms Control Ellen Tauscher;
then-White House Counsel Greg Craig; and a U.S.
Congressional delegation led by
Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and
Mark Udall (D-CO).
The Halifax Forum agenda reflected
the current state of transatlantic
security, focusing on changing global realities and
emerging threats. It included discussion sessions
on themes such as international law, nuclear
proliferation, and the future of NATO. Off-the-record
breakout sessions explored challenges associated
with North Korea, development, climate change,
and counter-terrorism, among other topics. Keynote
addresses by senior officials punctuated a gathering
heavily tilted toward intimate exchange of dialogue
among panelists and participants.
Ahead of the Halifax Forum, GMF released the
Halifax Papers, a series of seven policy briefs
on Arctic security, Afghan policy, nuclear non-
proliferation, maritime security, climate change,
and Japan. Please visit the Halifax Forum web site
for video, audio, transcripts, and other highlights:
www.halifaxforum.org.
Dateline: #Halifax, #Canada. GMF
pleased to announce the Halifax
International #Security Forum. http://
www.halifaxforum.org. Nov. 20-22
10:15 AM Jul 31st, 2009
Videos on Fora.TV: http://fora.tv/
partner/German_Marshall_Fund
RT @SenJohnMcCain: Great trip Halifax
with Sen Mark Udall and Sen Shaheen.
Canadians: great friends and allies!
http://yfrog.com/4e57475197j
3:20 PM Nov 21st, 2009
Gates on #Afghanistan “effort that
will require more commitment, more
sacrifice and more patience” #HISF
2:47 PM Nov 20th, 2009
zu Guttenberg on Afghanistan: we don’t
need “an exit strategy, but a strategy
of handing over repsonsibility” #HISF
4:00 PM Nov 20th, 2009
GMF and the Government of Canada convene the inaugural Halifax Interna-
tional Security Forum in Halifax, Nova Scotia. From left to right: Peter MacKay,
Defence Minister, Canada; Robert Gates, Secretary of Defense, United States; and
Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, Minister of Defense, Germany.
Michael
Creagen
2009 annual report 5
Brussels Forum
In March, GMF and its partners held the fourth
annual Brussels Forum in Brussels, Belgium.
Participants included then-EU High Representative
Javier Solana, World Bank President Robert
Zoellick, then-NATO Secretary General Jaap de
Hoop Scheffer, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey
Lavrov, Canadian Defence Minister Peter MacKay,
Polish Foreign Minister Radosław Sikorski, U.S.
Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan
Richard Holbrooke, a 12-person Congressional
delegation led by U.S. Senators Robert Bennett
(R-UT) and Robert Casey (D-PA), along with many
other American and European government officials,
scholars, journalists, and business leaders.
Participants at Brussels Forum discuss and debate
important transatlantic issues through keynote
addresses, discussions, and breakout sessions.
The 2009 edition focused on the
global financial crisis, Russia,
Afghanistan, NATO at 60, and more. Off-the-record
breakout sessions explored challenges like Asia, the
Middle East, and climate change.
At Brussels Forum, Zoellick predicted that the global
economy would shrink by 1 to 2 percent in 2009,
de Hoop Scheffer urged leaders to refocus NATO’s
goals at the April NATO Summit, Holbrooke called for
increases in the Afghan police force, and Barroso
asked that the U.S. and the EU avoid protectionism.
To continue the forum’s enhanced intellectual
experience, GMF again published six Brussels Forum
Papers on topics that included protectionism and the
global financial crisis, the international development
of fragile states, Russia, biofuels, immigration and
brain drain, and the legacy of 1989.
Brussels Forum was organized by GMF in
partnership with the Federal Authorities of Belgium
and the Egmont Institute, the Government of
the Czech Republic, and Daimler. Additional
sponsors included the Ministry of Defence
Republic of Latvia, the Bertelsmann Stiftung,
the Tipping Point Foundation, and Fortis Bank,
among others. Please visit the Brussels Forum
website for video, audio, transcripts, and
other highlights: www.brusselsforum.org.
Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, then-NATO Secretary General, speaks about
NATO’s 60th Anniversary with a group of high-level politicians,
academics, and journalists at GMF’s annual Brussels Forum in March.
Gaetan
Miclotte
Videos and transcripts available at
http://www.brusselsforum.org
Celebrating 1989
In 2009, GMF helped celebrate the 20th anniversary
of the historic fall of the Berlin Wall.
OFFICIAL DELEGATION: GMF President Craig
Kennedy was chosen by U.S. President Barack
Obama to join a delegation attending the
anniversary celebration in Berlin, Germany.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton led the
delegation, which also included Philip D. Murphy,
U.S. ambassador to the Federal Republic of
Germany; Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft, former national
security advisor to President George H.W. Bush;
USAF (Ret.), former national security advisor to U.S.
Presidents Gerald Ford and George H.W. Bush; and
Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, former national security
advisor to U.S. President Jimmy Carter.
PANEL DISCUSSION: On November 2, GMF reunited
a panel of key players from 1989 to discuss
the events surrounding the historic anniversary
and how it has shaped today’s world. The panel
included Hans-Dietrich Genscher, former foreign
minister of the Federal Republic of Germany;
Brent Scowcroft, former national security advisor
to President George H.W. Bush; and Robert
Kimmitt, former U.S. ambassador to Germany and
under secretary of state for political affairs. BBC
World News Washington Correspondent Katty Kay
moderated the discussion.
6 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Kay asked the panelists to describe their
experiences, both political and personal, at the
close of the Cold War era. Speaking first, Genscher
recalled his opinion of then-Soviet leader Mikhail
Gorbachev, remarking that
Gorbachev “believed one can
reform socialism,” but that “later, he had to learn
that you could not reform socialism, you could only
overcome socialism. That happened in 1989.”
He then spoke about the reforms and revolutions
that spread gradually across the Eastern bloc,
emphasizing that the fall of the Berlin Wall was not
just a German revolution, but a European one as
well.
MULTIMEDIA SERIES: On November 3, GMF
launched a multimedia
series titled “My 89,”
comprised of interviews with individuals
from all backgrounds giving their personal
accounts of events in Europe during 1989
through podcasts, videos, and photographs.
The series opened with a video from GMF Senior
Director of Policy Programs,
Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff, retelling
his participation in the first mass
exodus of East Germans during
the Pan-European Picnic in the summer of 1989.
Other podcast interviews included accounts of
the Velvet Revolution, the Leipzig protest, and the
night the Berlin Wall fell from Jens Reich, Hinrich
Lehmann-Grube, and Dan Morgan, among others.
reaffirmed Canada’s “profound commitment to
common security” through the alliance.  He also
spoke more broadly about Canada’s commitment
to NATO and his vision for moving the alliance
forward. MacKay outlined a dual approach,
focusing on both getting back to basics as well
as modernization. Most of all, MacKay articulated
that the alliance must remain the global security
partner of choice that is there to “protect, project,
and deliver.” 
GMF Hosts Transatlantic Leaders
GMF has long been host to transatlantic leaders
visiting Washington or one of the European capitals.
In 2009, GMF hosted a number of leaders who
spoke before transatlantic-oriented audiences.
On March 6, Canadian Defence Minister Peter
MacKay spoke in Washington about Canada’s
leading role in NATO. MacKay spoke frankly about
the challenges facing the alliance in Afghanistan
and around the world. MacKay emphasized the
importance of the Afghanistan mission and
Watch at Fora.TV: http://fora.
tv/2009/11/02/Berlin_Wall_The_
Impact_of_the_Fall_20_Years_Later
Canadian Defence Minister Peter MacKay discusses Afghanistan, NATO, and other major security issues facing the transatlantic
alliance, at a GMF event in Washington, DC.
Story of a great East German
escape from Hungary in #1989
http://www.gmfus.org/my89
12:11 PM Nov 7th, 2009
See http://www.gmfus.org/my89
Matthew
Wojtkun
2009 annual report 7
From October 22-25, GMF hosted the European Marshall Forum on Transatlantic Affairs in Berlin.
The event, “20 Years After 1989 — Looking Back and Ahead: Are the Ideals of Democracy and
Market Economy Still Valid?,” looked at the legacy of the fall of the Berlin Wall 20 years ago, as
well as current policy challenges and developments on both sides of the transatlantic community.
The event opened with a dinner hosted by the Deutsche Telekom. Guido Kerkhoff,
board member of Deutsche Telekom, and U.S. Ambassador to Germany Philip Murphy
welcomed the 200 participants to Berlin. Jens Reich, a molecular biologist who co-
founded one of the core opposition movements in the German Demorcatic Republic (GDR) in 1989,
delivered the keynote speech on how life in the GDR changed with reunification.
A number of sessions took place at the Berlin State Parliament, situated close to where
the Berlin Wall once divided the city. Participants, largely drawn from Marshall Memorial Fellowship
alumni, tackled current challenges for NATO, possible solutions for the financial crisis, and global
security. The conference closed with remarks by Rolf-Ernst Breuer, former president of the board of
Deutsche Bank, who gave his personal views on how the financial crisis developed, what should be
done to avoid a crisis like this one in the future, and ways to avoid similar situations in the future,
and by Paris Bureau Chief Steven Erlanger of The New York Times, who reflected on his personal
experiences in Central and Eastern Europe before and after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Participants
also visited a variety of sites that highlighted the cultural, historical, and political aspects of
Germany’s capital.
The Marshall Forum was held in conjunction with partners, including Air Berlin, Deutsche Telekom,
the U.S. Embassy to Germany, Deutsche Bank, and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ).
20 years after 1989, Berlin hosts annual Marshall Forum
on Transatlantic Affairs
SPOTLIGHT
Fmr German politician (and scientist)
Jens Reich brings #marshallforum
audience to standing O with
recollections of 1989 and reunification.
3:07 PM Oct 22nd, 2009
Biggest laugh in room: Jens Reich
calls German politics a “snake nest”
#marshallforum
3:22 PM Oct 22nd, 2009
Rolf-Ernst Breuer, Deutshe Bank Speaker of the Board (1997- 2002)
and Director of the Board (2002-2006), gives the keynote address on
the “Causes of the Financial Crisis and Perspectives Going Forward.”
2009 MMF Fellows [from left] Charlie Henn, Ali Arikan, Leon
Saltiel, and Lucy Okumu catch up before the Marshall Forum
opening dinner in Berlin.
PHOTOS:
WILL
BOHLEN
8 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
On July 16, GMF hosted a high-level roundtable
discussion in Washington on Central and Eastern
European (CEE) expectations of the Obama
administration. The meeting featured the Honorable
Madeleine K. Albright, former U.S. secretary of
state and now principal of the Albright Group, as
a commentator. Senator Alexandr Vondra of the
Czech Republic and Ambassador Istvan Gyarmati,
president and chief executive officer of the
International Centre for Democratic Transition in
Hungary, presented the CEE perspective.
Leading up to this event, GMF supported the work
of a Central European Task Force comprised of
prominent experts from the region with extensive
experience in think tanks and government. Out of
that meeting came a new GMF policy brief, “Why
the Obama Administration Should Not Take Central
and Eastern Europe for Granted.”
The brief outlined a renewed and
continued relationship between
the United States and Central and Eastern Europe.
Secretary Albright, stressing that the CEE countries
are her “favorite part of the world,” said this
was a timely effort to reinforce the transatlantic
partnership and help solidify the democracies
in Central and Eastern Europe. She closed her
commentary by saying, “I hope you see this policy
brief and these letters not as victims saying ‘Pay
attention to us,’ but as an understanding of the fact
that these are issues that need
to be dealt with as partners in an
incredibly complicated world.”
On December 8 in Washington, Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdo˘
gan delivered a speech
on Turkish foreign policy and Turkish-U.S. relations.
Erdo˘
gan’s speech touched on U.S. President Barack
Obama’s proposed “model partnership” between
Turkey and the United States, the Turkish economy’s
post-recession strength, and Turkey’s foreign policy
objectives.
The United States and Turkey, Erdo˘
gan said,
share much in common, which “makes stronger
cooperation between our two countries a necessity
for both bilateral interests and international stability
and peace.” Describing his meeting with President
Obama, Erdo˘
gan said they talked frankly about
improving bilateral ties and coordinating efforts to
counter political crises and economic uncertainty.
On Iran’s increased belligerence over its nuclear
aspirations, Erdo˘
gan was confident that Turkey had
a key role to play as “a diplomatic channel in talks.”
On December 14, Belgian Defense Minister Pieter
De Crem spoke at GMF’s Washington headquarters.
De Crem opened his remarks by giving a brief
overview of Belgium’s domestic political scene and
the significance of the nation’s role in European and
global politics. In additional to Belgium’s commitment
in Afghanistan, the country maintains a strong
presence in Lebanon, Kosovo, and with the European
Union’s anti-piracy force, Operation ATALANTA.
Historical ties also bind Belgian troops and resources
to areas in the Congo, Burundi, and Uganda.
De Crem emphasized the importance of Belgium
taking on the responsibilities of an international
player rather than a tiny nation. Since he took
office in 2007, De Crem has stressed reform of the
GMF Policy Brief: Why the Obama
Administration Should Not Take Central
and Eastern Europe for Granted http://
tr.im/sba0
5:06 PM Jul 13th, 2009
Albright: #Russia needs to realize
#NATO and #EU enlargement wasn’t
about Russia.
2:10 PM Jul 16th, 2009
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdo˘
gan discusses Turkish-U.S.
relations at a GMF event in December.
Ashley
vonClausburg
2009 annual report 9
ministry’s budget, support for President Obama’s
policies in the Middle East, and an interest in
seeing closer European integration under the EU’s
new Lisbon Treaty.
On December 16, GMF’s Brussels Office, in
partnership with NATO’s public diplomacy division,
hosted former U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright for a speech and discussion on the future
of the transatlantic relationship and
NATO. Albright’s speech focused
on the need to keep transatlantic
connections strong and discussed reworking NATO
to make it more relevant and decisive in a post-Cold
War world.
In her speech, Albright remarked that perceptions
of NATO have changed as “the sources of danger
in the world have grown more diverse.” The younger
generation has no memory of the World Wars or
the Cold War, and therefore lack confidence in and
understanding of international institutions, she said.
In her role as chair of the Advisory Group to the
Secretary General tasked to devise a new Strategic
Concept for NATO, Albright said they are considering
suggestions for attracting and maintaining popular
support in order to gain backing both inside
and outside NATO. Albright said that NATO must
adjust to “meet new dangers and to cope with the
constant churning of events,” but “should do so
with confidence that the democratic values we each
embrace are the right ones.”
The Road to Copenhagen/
Copenhagen Climate Conference
In the lead-up to the Conference of Parties (COP15)
to the United Nations Framework Conference on
Climate Change in Copenhagen, GMF hosted a
number of high-level events before and during the
December conference. GMF conducted interviews
with climate change policy experts like Warren
Maruyama, former general counsel at the Office
of the United States Trade Representative; Nat
Keohane of the Environmental Defense Fund; and
Cédric Philibert of the International
Energy Agency. GMF also
commissioned a number of papers
relating to climate change policy and legislation
that included: “Blueprint for a Transatlantic
Climate Partnership,” by GMF Senior Transatlantic
Fellow Nigel Purvis; “Climate Policy and Industrial
Competitiveness: Ten Insights from Europe on the
EU Emissions Trading System,” by Michael Grubb of
the U.K. Carbon Trust, Thomas L. Brewer of Climate
Strategies, Misato Sato of the London School of
Economics, Robert Heilmayr of the World Resources
Institute, and Dora Fazekas of Climate Strategies;
and “The Effect of EU Climate Legislation on
Business Competitiveness,“ by Mark Kenber, Oliver
Haugen, and Madeleine Cobb of The °Climate
Group.
On the ground in Copenhagen, GMF’s Climate &
Energy Program blogged about the proceedings and
held several events for key U.S. and EU stakeholders
in the climate debate to network,
share intelligence on the progress
of the negotiations, and discuss
transatlantic cooperation in securing a positive
outcome at COP15. The discussions also focused on
the likely implications of Copenhagen on domestic
climate policy in the United States and Europe.
Madeleine Albright speaks in Brussels
on NATO strategic concept (with
video)... http://bit.ly/4U1iQM
1:18 PM Dec 17th, 2009
Former U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright discusses the NATO strategic
concept and emphasizes the importance of the transatlantic alliance at a GMF
event in Brussels.
New GMF publication: “10 Insights from
Europe on the EU Emissions Trading
System” http://bit.ly/JhJ1C
2:35 PM Aug 10th, 2009
GMF is in Copenhagen for the Climate
Summit #COP15, and is blogging about
it here:... http://bit.ly/5dMXlj
5:50 PM Dec 10th, 2009
Lorena
Lombardozzi
10 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Panelists at an official UNFCCC side event, “Designing a Transparent
and Credible Global Carbon Market,” organized by GMF.
Copenhagen events included:
Climate and energy funders briefing at
COP15
On December 15, GMF Senior Transatlantic Fellow
Nigel Purvis and Director of International Climate
Policy at the World Resources Institute Rob Bradley
briefed a delegation of 50 climate and energy
funders on the status of the climate negotiations in
Copenhagen.
No green growth without innovation
On December 15, GMF, in cooperation with Bruegel,
organized a COP15 side event that focused
on a Bruegel paper, “No Green Growth without
Innovation.” The panel consisted of Reinhilde
Veugelers and Phillipe Aghion from Bruegel; Per
Callesen, deputy permanent secretary at the
Ministry of Finance in Denmark; and Nigel Purvis,
GMF senior transatlantic fellow.
Designing a transparent and credible
global carbon market at COP15
On December 16, GMF, in
partnership with the Nicholas
Institute at Duke University, hosted an official
UNFCCC side-event on how the United States can
design a transparent and credible carbon market
with the possibility of linking to a future global
carbon market system. The event featured Jos
Delbeke, deputy director general for environment
at the European Commission; Nigel Purvis, GMF
senior transatlantic fellow and president of Climate
Advisers; Patrick Woodcock, legislative assistant for
Senator Olympia Snowe; and Martin Gitlin, managing
director at Noble Carbon.
U.S. Center reception for U.S. and European
policymakers at COP15
On December 16, GMF also hosted a reception at
the U.S. Center featuring David Sandalow, assistant
secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy, and Jos
Delbeke, deputy director general of DG Environment
at the European Commission.
The U.S. climate and energy debate,
Copenhagen and beyond at COP15
On December 14, GMF, in partnership with the
Nicholas Institute at Duke University and Evolution
Markets, hosted a dinner event. The event
connected key stakeholders in the climate debate
from the United States, Europe, and emerging
economies to discuss the status and implications of
the Copenhagen negotiations.
Fora.TV: http://fora.tv/2009/12/16/
Creating_a_Strong_and_Credible_
Global_Carbon_Market
Kristin
Luber
2009 annual report 11
What Does Japan Think?
From December 7-10, in Tokyo, Japan, GMF, in
collaboration with the Tokyo Foundation, held a
seminar entitled “What Does Japan Think?” At
the seminar, senior European and
U.S. journalists, scholars, and
policymakers discussed a changing
Japan with Japanese journalists and scholars and
met with ministers and representatives of the new
Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) government.
Discussions touched upon the
impact of the new Hatoyama
administration on domestic politics, the U.S.-Japan
alliance, Japan’s defense policy with reference
to North Korea and China, Japan’s economic
policy, multilateralism in Asia and Asia-Pacific, and
Japanese perspectives on climate change.
The seminar gave opinion leaders from the United
States and Europe a rare and timely opportunity to
network with their peers in Tokyo, and to gain an
insight into the priorities and workings of the new
government, as well as a Japanese analysis on the
state of Japan’s relationship with Europe and the
United States. 
After the seminar, participants published columns
in The New York Times, The Washington Post, the
Financial Times, and the Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung addressing Japan’s role in the world.
Stockholm China Forum
In May 2009, GMF held the fifth edition of the
Stockholm China Forum. Now in its third year, the
Forum brings together policymakers, intellectuals,
journalists, and business leaders from the United
States, Europe, and Asia for an ongoing and
systematic dialogue to assess the impact of China’s
rise and its implications for European and American
foreign, economic, and security policies. This
year, the Forum topics included
U.S.-EU-China cooperation on
Afghanistan-Pakistan, the political
and strategic implications of the
economic crisis, the situation in
North Korea, the prospects for
a climate deal at Copenhagen,
and the European and Chinese
response to U.S. President
Obama’s foreign policy agenda.
The Stockholm China Forum was
organized by GMF in conjunction
with the Swedish Ministry for
Foreign Affairs, the Swedish
Foundation for International
Cooperation in Research and
Higher Education (STINT), and the
Riksbankens Jubileumsfond.
New section on GMF website on GMF’s
work on transatlantic approaches to
the rise of Asia: http://gmfus.org/asia/
index.cfm
2:43 PM Apr 29th, 2009
Panelist Noboru Yamaguchi, Lieutenant General (retired), Japan
Ground Self-Defense Force, speaks at GMF’s “What Does Japan
Think?” conference, held in December.
GMF Senior Fellow for Asia
Daniel Twining spoke with Liu
Xuecheng of the China Institute
for International Studies,
Francois Godemont of the
European Council of Foreign
Relations, and Michael Green
of the Center for Strategic
and International Studies at
Georgetown University for a
podcast interview on U.S.-EU-
China relations.
For this and other podcasts,
search GMF on iTunes or visit
www.gmfus.org.
PODCAST
Participants take notes at the fifth Stockholm China Forum in
Sweden.
On the web at: http://www.gmfus.
org/event/detail.cfm?id=652&parent_
type=E Amy
Studdart
Amy
Studdart
12 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
What Does Russia Think?
In July, GMF President Craig Kennedy, GMF Senior
Transatlantic Fellow David J. Kramer, GMF Balkan
Trust for Democracy Executive Director Ivan Vejvoda,
and GMF Board Members David Ignatius and Robin
West participated in “What Does Russia Think?”
in Moscow.  Organized by GMF, in cooperation with
the Russian Institute (headed by Gleb Pavlovskiy)
and the Centre for Liberal Studies (headed by
Ivan Krastev), the five-day seminar featured top
intellectuals, political consultants, and policy
analysts advising Russian Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin and Russian President Dmitri Medvedev.
Participants included: Dmitri Trenin, Carnegie
Moscow Center; Valerii Fadeev, editor-in-chief of
Expert magazine and director of the Institute of
Social Engineering; Vladislav Inozemtsev, director
of the Centre for Research of a Post-Industrial
Society; and Vyacheslav Glazychev, chairman of
the Public Chamber Commission on Regional
Development.  Also participating in the seminar
was a distinguished group of European analysts
and Russia watchers including Aleksander Smolar
of the Batory Foundation, Heather Grabbe of OSI
– Brussels, Mark Leonard of the European Council
on Foreign Relations, Sandra Breka of the Robert
Bosch Stiftung, and Soli Ozel of Bilgi University.
The overarching focus was on what the ruling class
in Russia has on its mind in terms of governance,
foreign policy, and the economy.  Much of the
discussion centered on what Russia wants, as
much as what it thinks, and, on occasion, what
Russia needs. At the top of the list, the Russian
participants repeatedly voiced aspirations that
Russia be respected and that it be viewed as
influential with a say in global matters. They were
eager to restore public confidence after the global
economic crisis shook the foundation on which the
Putin years were based, though many economic
forecasts offered during the seminar were not
optimistic. 
Transatlantic Forum on Migration
and Integration
In cooperation with the Robert Bosch Stiftung,
GMF held its second annual Transatlantic Forum
on Migration and Integration (TFMI) from July 15-
19, in Austin and San Antonio, Texas. TFMI is a
transatlantic learning community on migration and
integration focused especially on future decision-
makers. This year, TFMI brought together 58 young
leaders from 26 countries working on immigration
issues.
There was considerable attention focused on the
U.S.-Russian relationship given that the conference
took place just days before the first visit to Moscow
by U.S. President Barack Obama.  The seminar
also revealed lingering distrust and disagreement
between the Russians and the Europeans/
Americans on issues of security, human rights,
policy toward and treatment of countries along
Russia’s borders (and along the borders of the EU
in many cases),  and energy security. Following the
seminar, The Washington Post published several
columns based on seminar discussions and papers. 
In addition, the European Council on Foreign
Relations published a compilation of the papers
presented by Russian participants.
GMF’s Delancey Gustin [left] and 2009 TFMI Participants Suzanne
Hafidi-Gevers, Victoria Stoiciu, and Jill Marie Gerschutz participate
in an open discussion on personal and cultural values.
Tom
Wassman
2009 annual report 13
Of the 58 participants, 42 were attending the forum
for a second time, deepening the existing network
while also adding voices from countries previously
not represented, including Japan, Russia, and El
Salvador. Like in 2008, the 2009 TFMI participants
came from various work backgrounds, including
business, government, media, academia, and
nongovernmental organizations on both sides of
the Atlantic. Participants were selected through a
thorough nomination and application process. 
In order to examine international as well as North
American migration issues alongside particular local
concerns, TFMI offered a mix of formats over three
days. The events included an opening dinner and
“armchair discussion” at the Bob Bullock Texas
State History Museum, site visits to ten local NGOs
providing services to immigrants, workshops, and a
trip to an immigration court hearing in San Antonio.
In the spirit of giving participants more ownership
over TFMI this year, participants brought in their
expertise by organizing workshops themselves and
functioning as input speakers on topics such as the
effects of the current economic crisis on migration,
religion and ethnicity, and migration as a security
concern.
Citing the involvement of TFMI in the local NGO
community, Austin Mayor Lee Leffingwell declared
July 16, 2009, as the official TFMI Day in the city
of Austin.
Congress-Bundestag Forum
GMF and the Robert Bosch Stiftung held the sixth
annual Congress-Bundestag Forum in Bavaria and
Berlin, Germany, from February 13-17.
Ten members of the German Bundestag and seven
members of the U.S. House of Representatives
participated, joined by speakers from the U.S.
administration as well as the think tank and
business communities. Speakers included Professor
Harald von Witzke of Humboldt University; Volker
Stanzel, Political Director of the Federal Foreign
Office; Jürgen Stark, a member of the European
Central Bank’s Executive Board; and journalists
Daniel Brössler of Süddeutsche Zeitung and Ulrich
Ladurner of Die Zeit.
Topics of discussion in 2009 included China and
India, food security, the international financial crisis,
Afghanistan, climate and innovative technologies,
transatlantic relations after the U.S. elections,
and Russia. Highlights included a keynote speech
focused on the Middle East and the challenges
that lay ahead for transatlantic cooperation from
Volker Perthes, director of the German Institute for
International and Security Affairs (SWP).
The Congress-Bundestag Forum is designed to
improve dialogue over the long term between
American and German policymakers by providing
opportunities for young members of the German
Bundestag and the U.S. Congress to exchange ideas
and establish close personal ties with one another.
The program is designed to develop networks
of policy leaders on both sides of the Atlantic
committed to maintaining and improving U.S.-German
relations, including in international trade, public
diplomacy, the use of military force, demographic
change, civil liberties, energy supply, climate change,
immigration and integration, and public health.
Members of the German Bundestag [from left] Hoger Haibach and
Alexander Bonde, and U.S. Congressman Steve King discuss the day’s
events at the 2009 Congress-Bundestag Forum.
Andrew
Fishbein
14 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Mediterranean Policy Program
In 2009, GMF launched a Mediterranean Policy
Program to promote transatlantic analysis and
dialogue on issues affecting Southern Europe, North
Africa, the Levant, and the Mediterranean basin. The
program’s priority areas are: understanding trends in
Mediterranean societies, including opportunities for
south-south cooperation and integration; research
and debate on key functional issues affecting
Mediterranean security and development; and
strengthening the North American policy debate on
the region and fostering transatlantic cooperation on
Mediterranean strategy.
Core projects include:
Mediterranean Strategy Group: A convening
and networking activity based in Genoa (Italy)
bringing together leading officials, experts
and opinion shapers from both sides of the
Mediterranean and both sides of the Atlantic. GMF
organizes this activity in cooperation with the Italian
Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome,
and with support of the Compagnia di San Paolo,
ENEL, the OCP Group, the Calouste Gulbenkian
Foundation, and the Luso-American Foundation.
The inaugural meeting, entitled “Is Regional
Cooperation in the Maghreb Possible? Implications
for the Region and External Actors,” was held May
10-12.
Trilateral Strategy Group: In addition to
programming from GMF’s Ankara office, and projects
supported through the Black Sea Trust for Regional
Cooperation, GMF has launched a multi-year effort
bringing together leaders from the United States,
Turkey, and Europe for twice-yearly off-the-record
discussions on selected themes affecting all sides
of the “triangle.” GMF partners with the Turkish
Industrialists’ and Business Men’s Association
(TUSIAD), Koc Holding, and the Swedish Ministry of
Foreign Affairs on this activity, which will also include
a series of briefings and publications for wider policy
audiences.
The inaugural meeting, entitled “The Global
Economic Crisis: Strategic Implications for Turkey,
Europe, and the United States,” was held in
Istanbul, June 4-6.
Panelists [from left] Baroness Pauline Neville-Jones, Shadow
Security Minister, U.K. House of Lords; Dr. Michael Leigh, Director
General for Enlargement, European Commission; Dr. Ian Lesser, Se-
nior Transatlantic Fellow, The German Marshall Fund of the United
States; Ambassador Oğuz Demiralp, Secretary General, Secretariat
General for EU Affairs; and Mr. Mark Leonard, Executive Director,
European Council on Foreign Relations participate in the inaugural
meeting of the Trilateral Strategy Group held at the Rahmi Koç
Museum in Istanbul, June 5.
Nathaniel
Breeding
2009 annual report 15
Transatlantic Academy
The Transatlantic Academy serves as a forum
for a select group of scholars from both sides
of the Atlantic, and from different academic and
policy disciplines, to examine a single set of
issues. Working together from a transatlantic and
interdisciplinary perspective, Academy fellows
use research, publications, and ideas to make
policy-relevant contributions to debates facing the
transatlantic community. 
In the first half of 2009, the Academy’s inaugural
fellows concluded their research on migration and
integration. On June 4, the Academy released “No
Shortcuts: Selective Migration and Integration,” a
report that reveals the collapse
of the economic financial system
will have repercussions for the immigration of highly-
skilled workers for years to come.
“Immigration, migration, the competition for
highly-skilled workers in aging societies, and the
social and cultural integration of new Europeans
and new Americans will be key to not only the
competitiveness of Western economies in a global
economy, but also the changing nature of their
identities in this century,” said Stephen Szabo,
executive director of the Transatlantic Academy. 
In the same month, the Academy announced its
2009-2010 fellows. Their research examines the
role of Turkey in the Black Sea and Middle East,
and how that will influence Western policy in those
regions. Fellows examine perceptions of this
new role by key players in the region and in the
transatlantic community.
During the course of the year, fellows contribute
policy-relevant articles and papers to inform the
policy debate on both sides of the Atlantic. They
also contribute to academic conferences and work
together on an Academy publication at the end of
their fellowship.
Fellows for the 2009-2010 year are:
Ahmet Evin
Sabanci University, Turkey
Kemal Kirisci
Bo˘
gaziçi University, Istanbul
Ronald H. Linden
University of Pittsburgh, United States
Nathalie Tocci
Istituto Affari Internazionali, Rome
Juliette Tolay-Sargnon
University of Delaware, United States
Joshua W. Walker
Princeton University, United States
On the web at:
www.transatlanticacademy.org
16 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Transatlantic Trends 2009
The results of the 2009 Transatlantic Trends survey
showed that European support for U.S. President
Barack Obama’s handling of foreign policy is
quadruple the approval given to his predecessor,
George W. Bush. But people in Central and Eastern
Europe and Turkey were markedly less enthusiastic
about Obama and the United States than were their
West European counterparts. And
Obama’s personal popularity has
not bridged serious transatlantic differences over
Afghanistan, Iran, and climate change, according to
the survey.
Transatlantic Trends (www.transatlantictrends.org)
— a project of GMF and the Compagnia di San
Paolo in Turin, Italy, with additional support from the
Fundação Luso-Americana (Portugal), the Fundación
BBVA (Spain), and the Tipping Point Foundation
(Bulgaria) — measures broad public opinion in
the United States and 12 European countries and
gauges transatlantic relations.  For the eighth
consecutive year, participants were
asked their views on each other
and on global threats, foreign
policy objectives, world leadership, and multilateral
institutions.
Key findings include:
Obama’s Transatlantic Impact
To Europeans, President Obama is certainly no
George W. Bush. Support of the current American
president jumped 80 percentage points in Germany,
77 points in France, 70 in Portugal, and 64 points
in Italy. No other single annual indicator changed
this much in the eight years of Transatlantic Trends.
Even in Turkey, where only half the respondents
(50%) support Obama, that backing represents a 42
percentage-point increase over approval of President
Bush (8%) in 2008.
Not Anti-American, But Less Atlanticist
The Obama bounce was more pronounced in Western
than in Central and Eastern Europe. West Europeans
(86%) overwhelmingly view Obama’s policies
favorably. But respondents in Central and East
European countries, while still supportive (60%), are
markedly less enthusiastic. In 2009, fewer people in
Central and Eastern Europe (53%) than in Western
Europe (63%) see America in a positive light. That
is a reversal from 2008 when, by a slight margin,
Central and East European nations (44%) were
more favorably disposed toward the United States
than were their West European counterparts (40%). 
People in Central and Eastern Europe (25%) are far
less likely than West Europeans (43%) to believe that
relations between the United States and Europe have
improved over the past year. Fewer Central and East
Europeans (53%) than West Europeans (63%) believe
that NATO is essential.
Support for Afghanistan Mission
Waning in Europe
Notwithstanding growing European support for
transatlantic security cooperation, the NATO allies
disagree about Afghanistan. Nearly two-thirds of
Europeans (63%) are pessimistic about stabilizing
the situation in that war-torn country. At the same
time, a majority of Americans (56%) are optimistic.
The prevailing view in all of the nations surveyed,
except for the United States, is to see the number
of their troops reduced or their forces totally
withdrawn. More than half of West Europeans (55%)
and two-thirds of East Europeans (69%) want to
reduce or remove their soldiers from Afghanistan.
Mars and Venus on Iran, Trepidation
about Russia
Europeans and Americans disagree on what to do
about Iran. If diplomatic efforts would fail to prevent
Tehran from acquiring nuclear weapons, a majority of
people in the European Union (53%) would increase
diplomatic pressure on Iran, but rule out the use
of military force. Americans (47%) favor increasing
diplomatic pressure on Iran while maintaining the
option of resorting to force. Moscow’s behavior
TransTrends tidbit: Brits and Americans
had only majorities who agree that
war is sometimes necessary to obtain
justice.
11:45 AM Sep 14th, 2009
For videos, documents and more
visit us on the web at
www.transatlantictrends.org
2009 annual report 17
toward its neighbors is a
growing concern among the NATO
allies. In 2009, seven-in-ten Europeans (70%) favor
the European Union providing security assistance
for emerging democracies such as Ukraine and
Georgia. And a majority of Americans (68%) back
Washington taking similar action.
Improving Transatlantic Ties
The Obama presidency has been a boon for
transatlantic relations. In 2009, the proportion
of the population that believes transatlantic ties
improved over the past year has doubled in the
European Union (to 41%) and tripled in the United
States (to 31%) from 2008. There is less of a sense
of improvement in Central and Eastern Europe
(25%), however.
No Undermining of U.S. Economic Leadership
The economy is a main concern on both sides of
the Atlantic. Europeans look to Washington for
help, in part because of Obama’s popularity. A
plurality of both Americans (29%) and Europeans
(31%) believe that managing international economic
problems should be the top priority for the
American president and European leaders, trumping
concerns over international terrorism, climate
change, or the Middle East. And more than half of
respondents in the European Union (53%) think
strong U.S. leadership on world economic affairs
is desirable in addressing that priority.
Four-in-five Europeans (79%), but barely half
of Americans (54%), approve of Obama’s
handling of international economic affairs in
his first few months in office.
Events were held in Paris and Washington, DC,
to mark the survey’s launch. On September 9,
in Washington, DC, GMF’s event “The Obama
Bounce in Europe: Its Reach, Its Limits,” featured
remarks by James B. Steinberg, deputy secretary
of state for the U.S. Department of State. The
event focused upon Obama’s popularity in Europe,
key transatlantic foreign policy challenges, an
emerging divide in Europe, perceptions and effects
of the economic crisis, differences in attitudes
about climate change, the role of the European
Union in world leadership, and Turkey’s position
in the transatlantic relationship. The findings
were presented by Bruce Stokes, international
economics columnist for National Journal and a
GMF transatlantic fellow. On September 11, in
Paris, GMF hosted a discussion on transatlantic
relations that included U.S.-France relations
at Sciences Po.  Philip Gordon, U.S. assistant
secretary of state for European and Eurasian
affairs; David Ignatius, author and columnist for The
Washington Post; François Richier, advisor to the
president of the French Republic on International
security and military-political issues; and Nicole
Bacharan, political scientist and senior researcher
at Sciences Po, commented on the findings and
offered their views of transatlantic relations under
the new Obama administration. Gordon, who was
pleased with the survey’s findings — that showed
European support for President Obama’s handling
of foreign policy quadrupled the approval given
to his predecessor, George W. Bush — cautioned
that transatlantic cooperation is necessary, but
sometimes that it is not enough to get things
done.  He said the United States needs strong
European partners, and the three visits President
Obama had then made in Europe are signals that
Obama values what is happening in Europe.  
18 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Transatlantic Trends: Immigration 2009
For the second year, GMF and its partners
released Transatlantic Trends: Immigration, a
public opinion survey that is part of the successful
Transatlantic Trends brand. The survey shows
that while majorities on both sides of the Atlantic
are preoccupied with economic
troubles, the global financial crisis
has not had a strong impact on views toward
immigration.
Overall assessments of immigration as more of a
problem than an opportunity have gone up slightly
from last year; in 2009, 50 percent of Europeans
and 54 percent of respondents in the United States
described immigration as “more of a problem,”
an increase from 43 percent and 50 percent,
respectively, in 2008.
Transatlantic Trends: Immigration is a project of
the German Marshall Fund of the United States,
with support from the Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation (U.S.), the Compagnia di San Paolo
(Italy), and the Barrow Cadbury Trust (U.K.), with
additional support from the Fundación BBVA (Spain).
It measures public opinion on immigration issues
in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom,
France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Spain.
Key findings include:
Economic Crisis had Little Effect on
Attitudes, Political Leaning is Stronger
In all countries except the United States,
respondents whose household economic situation
got worse in the past year were slightly more likely
to be worried about legal immigration. However,
the economic crisis has not had a large effect on
overall attitudes. Instead, self-described political
leaning is much more pronounced when related to
changing attitudes — those on the political right in
Europe and describing themselves as Republican
in the United States had 7- and 15-point jumps,
respectively, in saying that immigration was more of
a problem than an opportunity compared to 2008.
Support for Legalization is Up in Europe,
Down in the United States
Countries were divided on whether or not to give
illegal immigrants the opportunity to obtain legal
status -- German and French respondents were in
favor, Italians and Brits were against, and Dutch,
Spanish, and Canadian respondents were split. But
all European countries saw an increase in support
for legalization over the previous year. The United
States showed declining support for a legalization
measure (49% supported it in 2008, 44% in 2009).
Transatlantic Majorities Favor Permanent
Over Temporary Labor Programs
As in 2008, majorities in all countries surveyed
indicated that “legal immigrants who come to the
country to work” should be given the opportunity to
immigrate permanently, rather than forced to return
to their countries of origin after a temporary period.
All Countries Support Social Benefits for
Legal Immigrants
Majorities in all countries supported providing social
benefits and granting political participation rights
to legal immigrants, though only France (65%), Italy
(53%), and Spain (53%) clearly support granting
local voting rights to them.
Mediterranean Countries Support
Development Aid to Reduce Illegal
Immigration
A plurality or majority in the three Mediterranean
countries surveyed — France (44%), Italy (45%),
and Spain (51%) — thought that increasing
development aid would be the best way to reduce
illegal immigration, favoring this policy over border
controls, employer sanctions, and facilitating legal
immigration.
For videos, documents and more
visit us on the web at
www.transatlantictrends.org
2009 annual report 19
Assessments of Government Success on
Immigration Policy Vary Greatly
Opinions as to how governments are managing
immigration differed wildly across countries —
British (71%), Spanish (64%), American (63%), and
Italian (53%) respondents disapproved of their
governments’ management, but Germans (71%),
Canadians (59%), the Dutch (53%), and the French
(50%) approved of the steps taken thus far.
On Turkey series
GMF continued its On Turkey series in 2009. Topics
included Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdo˘
gan’s visit
to the United States, the Kurdish
issue, relations with Armenia,
regional missile defense, and the
role of women in Turkish politics. GMF provides
regular analysis briefs by leading Turkish, European,
and American writers and intellectuals, with a
focus on dispatches from on-the-ground Turkish
observers. In 2009, the series added a new author,
Diba Nigar Göksel, senior analyst and Caucasus
coordinator of the European Stability Initiative and
editor-in-chief of Turkish Policy Quarterly, for its on-
the-ground reporting in Turkey. (www.gmfus.org/
onturkey)
Other series authors include:
Soli Ozel, a professor at Istanbul Bilgi University and
a columnist for the national daily Sabah
Amberin Zaman, Turkey correspondent for The
Economist
Ian Lesser, GMF Senior Transatlantic Fellow and a
longtime Turkey follower at the State Department,
RAND, and the Woodrow Wilson Center
Transatlantic Take Series
In September, GMF launched a regular series of op-
ed style pieces called the Transatlantic Take. Each
week, GMF distributes several emails with a short
take on the week’s news or topics
GMF is following closely. Each piece
is written by GMF staff or fellows
from both sides of the Atlantic. Every Transatlantic
Take piece is then posted to the GMF blog, where
authors and readers are welcome to comment and
continue the conversation. The authors comment on
current events from a transatlantic perspective, in
some cases highlighting new issues that should be
on the transatlantic agenda.
At the conclusion of 2009, more than 30
Transatlantic Takes had been published, including
many that received attention from international
media outlets including The New York Times,
RealClearWorld, and EurActiv.
In November, GMF launched
the podcast series “Inside
Brussels,” designed to give
insight into the Brussels
decision-making process
and events in
the European
capital. In the first
installment, GMF Transatlantic
Fellow Gilles Andreani gives
his view on the implications of
the Lisbon Treaty on European
foreign policy. Topics discussed
include the relationship
between the foreign policy of
the member states and the
Union, the relationship between
NATO and the EU, and the role
of the new external action
service.
Other installments include
discussions on the roles of
Baroness Catherine Ashton,
high representative of the Union
for foreign affairs and security
policy, and Herman Van Rompuy,
president of the European
Council, and the future political
difficulties they may face.
PODCAST series: inside brussels
New Inside Brussels podcast on the
implications of the Lisbon Treaty for
European foreign policy http://bit.
ly/1VU0Rq
10:32 AM Nov 12th, 2009
New analysis piece released for
GMF’s On Turkey series by Ian Lesser,
The New Turkish Lexicon http://bit.
ly/38RCs5
1:46 PM Nov 3rd, 2009 Craig Kennedy launches our new
“Transatlantic Take” series: Obama,
Europe, and the inevitable: http://bit.
ly/408Lzj
11:15 AM Sep 22nd, 2009
20 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Economic-Related Policy Research
E-BOOK ON FUTURE OF ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP
AGREEMENTS
On November 19, GMF released an electronic book
on the future of Economic Partnership Agreements
(EPA) titled, “Updating Economic Partnership
Agreements to Today’s Global Challenges.” The book
features a compilation of essays authored by high-
ranking government officials and senior experts on
EPA negotiations. In their essays,
authors take stock of negotiations
of EPAs between the European Union and a large
number of African, Caribbean, and Pacific states,
and make recommendations for the improvement of
the agreements.
The following authors contributed to the publication:
Emily Jones (Oxford University) and Darlan F. Marti
(UNCTAD), Katrin A. Kuhlmann (GMF), Patrick
Messerlin (GEM, Sciences Po Paris), Christian
Haeberli (WTI), Sanoussi Bilal (ECDPM), Bert
Koenders (Government of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands), Joao Aguiar Machado (European
Commission, DG TRADE), Xavier Carim (Government
of the Republic of South Africa), Jean Noel Francois
(African Union Commission), Ablassé Ouedraogo
(WAEMU Commission for EPA negotiations),
Christopher Stevens (ODI), David Laborde
Debucquet (IFPRI), Pierre Sauvé (WTI) and Denis
Audet, Stephen Karekezi, John Kimani and Oscar
Onguru (all AFREPREN), Ruth L. Okediji (University of
Minnesota), Xavier Cirera (University of Sussex), and
Eckart Naumann (TRALAC).
Global Trade Alert
The global economic downturn has manifested
itself in a sharp contraction of consumer demand
and employment, and it has severely undermined
business and consumer confidence. This situation
is worrisome since it could conceivably lead to a
vicious circle of protectionism. In London on April 2,
G20 leaders pledged that “[w]e will not repeat the
historic mistakes of protectionism of previous eras”
and charged the World Trade Organization (WTO) to
monitor new state measures published in a global
surveillance report on a quarterly basis. However,
the WTO Secretariat is a strictly impartial body, and
its mandate and resources are limited. 
To fill the gap the WTO and other institutions
cannot fill, the Centre for Economic Policy Research
launched the Global Trade Alert (GTA) project in
London on June 8. In partnership with GMF, the
Department for International Development, the
International Development Research Center, the
Center for International Governance
Innovation, the Department for
Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, and
the World Bank, four other launches took place
around the world in the second-half of 2009. This
included Washington, DC, on June 22, Beijing on
August 11 and 12, Bangkok on August 13, and
Brussels on September 3.
The GTA allows policymakers, government officials,
exporters, the media, and analysts to search the
posted government measures by implementing
country, trading partners harmed, and sector. In this
regard, GTA will complement and go beyond the WTO
and World Bank’s monitoring initiatives by identifying
those trading partners likely to be harmed by state
measures. The GTA has released several reports
since its launch, including one that cited over 100
“blatantly discriminatory measures” by members of
the G20.
Tim Searchinger’s Biofuels research in
Science
In October, GMF Transatlantic Fellow Tim
Searchinger and 12 other authors released an
article in the journal Science that details an
important but fixable error in legal accounting rules
for bioenergy that could undermine efforts to reduce
greenhouse gases by encouraging deforestation.
According to the article, “Accounting Error
Undermines Climate Change Laws,” the burning of
bioenergy and fossil energy releases comparable
On the web: http://www.
globaltradealert.org/
On the web: http://www.gmfus.
org/economics/event/detail.
cfm?id=637&parent_type=E
2009 annual report 21
On the web: http://www.gmfus.org/
taskforce/
amounts of carbon dioxide from tailpipes or
smokestacks. However, bioenergy use may reduce
emissions overall if the biomass results from
additional plant growth, which absorbs carbon
dioxide from the atmosphere and therefore offsets
the emissions from the eventual burning of the
biomass for energy. However, the greenhouse gas
consequences of using bioenergy vary greatly with
the source of the biomass.
According to the authors, the solution is to count
all emissions from energy use, whether from fossil
fuels or bioenergy, and then to develop a system
to credit bioenergy to the extent it uses biomass
derived from “additional” carbon sources, thereby
offsetting energy emissions.
Aid Effectiveness Project
Established in 2007, GMF’s Aid Effectiveness
Project aims to elevate development as a key
priority on U.S. and European policy agendas.
Through its Transatlantic Taskforce on Development,
Innovations in Aid Series, and Transatlantic Dialogue
on Development-Security Coherence, the project
continues to support efforts to modernize foreign
aid systems and increase shared understanding
among development, diplomatic, and defense
practitioners. Because four out of five dollars
of overseas development assistance originates
from the United States and Europe, transatlantic
stakeholders share a responsibility for ensuring
that aid is less fragmented and more coherent and
effective. Coordination is limited and particularly
weak in fragile and post-conflict states. To address
these issues, the Aid Effectiveness Project furthered
its “Innovations in Aid” event series, conducted
high-level practitioner seminars, commissioned
primary research, and launched and continues to
disseminate a set of strategic recommendations
in the Transatlantic Taskforce on Development’s
2009 policy report, “Toward a Brighter World: A
Transatlantic Call for Renewed Leadership and
Partnerships in Global Development.”
Co-chaired by GMF Senior Transatlantic Fellow
Jim Kolbe and Gunilla Carlsson, minister for
International Development Cooperation for
Sweden, the Taskforce consists of more than 20
representatives from North America and Europe
who bring a wide array of perspectives to the
development debate, including knowledge and
experience from public and private sectors, politics,
research, business, and civil society. The Taskforce
examined four priority challenges: development,
democracy, and security; climate change; food
security; and effective support for development.
Final report recommendations included improving
the autonomy and vitality of USAID; eliminating or
reducting U.S. and EU domestic agricultural and
biofuel subsidies; and creating a post-Kyoto deal
that effectively links development and climate
change.
On February 10, the Transatlantic Taskforce
on Development urged renewed leadership
and partnerships in global
development to political leaders
on both sides of the Atlantic.
The Aid Effectiveness Project continues to help
promote structural changes in the global and
22 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
transatlantic aid systems. In 2009, the Project
convened policy experts and decision-makers from
the U.S. and European legislative, government
agency, NGO, and business sectors to support
increased understanding on key issues such as
interagency coordination, transparency and mutual
accountability, aid harmonization and alignment,
and country ownership. Under the leadership of
Senior Transatlantic Fellows Jim Kolbe and Jim
Kunder, the project also facilitated transatlantic
dialogue on greater development-security coherence,
focusing on the challenges of achieving human
security and development in hostile and post-conflict
environments. During 2010, the project will continue
to fund research and bring together thought leaders
to explore key questions on how to create a more
modern and flexible transatlantic aid architecture.
GMF FELLOWS
Gilles Andreani
former Director of the Policy Planning Staff,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, France
Daniel Fata
Vice President, The Cohen Group; former U.S.
Deputy Assistant Secretary fo Defense for
Europe and NATO Policy
Charles Fluharty
Founding Director and former President, Rural
Policy Research Institute
John Glenn
Policy Director, U.S. Global Leadership Coalition
Jennifer Hillman
Member, Appellate Body, World Trade
Organization
Joerg Himmelreich
former Member, Policy Planning Staff, German
Federal Foregin Office
Jim Kolbe
former Member, U.S. House of Representatives,
representing the 8th Congressional District of
Arizona
David Kramer
former Assistant Secretary of State for
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, U.S.
Department of State
Katrin Kuhlman
President, Trade, Aid and Security Coalition
James Kunder
former Acting Deputy Administrator, U.S. Agency
for International Development
Robert Liberatore
former Head of Global External Affairs and
Public Policy, DaimlerChrysler
Ian Lesser
former leader of a project on the future of U.S.-
Turkish relations, Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars; President, Mediterranean
Advisors, LLC; and Senior Advisor, Luso-
American Foundation, Lisbon
Dan Morgan
Correspondent, The Washington Post
Alice Poole
Consultant, PA Consulting Group
Nigel Purvis
President, Climate Advisers
Joseph Quinlan
Chief Market Strategist, Bank of America Capital
Management
Tim Searchinger
former Co-Director, Center for Conservation
Incentives, Environmental Defense
Andrew Small
former Director, Foreign Policy Centre, Beijing
Constanze Stelzenmüller
former Defense and International Security
Editor, DIE ZEIT
Bruce Stokes
International Economics Columnist, National
Journal
Jack Thurston
President, Farmsubsidy.org
Daniel Twining
former Member of then Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, U.S.
Department of State
Patrick Weil
Director, Center for the Study of Immigration,
Integration, and Citizenship Polices, Sorbonne
University
Joseph Wood
former Deputy Assistant of National Security
Affairs to former U.S. Vice President Richard
Cheney
2009 annual report 23
Marshall Memorial Fellowship
Founded in 1982, the Marshall Memorial Fellowship
(MMF) was created by GMF to introduce a new
generation of European leaders to America’s
institutions, politics, and people. In 1999, GMF
launched a companion program
to expose future U.S. leaders to a
changing and expanding Europe.
GMF works closely with dedicated individuals and
partner organizations in more than 50 cities to
make the MMF program possible. The Fellowship
continues to expand and provide new opportunities
to Fellows and cities on both sides of the Atlantic.
Fellowship schedules in 2009 included visits to
four new cities: Leipzig, Germany; Sarajevo, Bosnia
and Herzegovina; Zagreb, Croatia; and West Palm
Beach, Florida. With the help of new partners,
GMF reestablished programs in a number of cities,
including Strasbourg and Lyon, France; Barcelona,
Spain; Munich, Germany; and Detroit, Michigan.
Operating initially in four countries—Denmark,
France, Germany, and the Netherlands—the MMF
network now reaches across the
United States and 22 European
countries, counting among its
members nearly 2,000 alumni
working in all sectors, including politics, media,
business, and nongovernmental organizations. In
2009, the accomplishments of MMF alumni were
numerous and notable, including the nomination
of MMF alumna Connie Hedegaard as EU
Commissioner, a first for the MMF alumni network. 
With the help of GMF’s partners, 105 fellows
participated in the 2009 programs, and a further
105 fellows have been selected to travel in 2010.
The MMF program is made possible in part through
partnership with the Cleveland Foundation and
the Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation and by in-
kind contributions including BMW Stiftung Herbert
Quandt, Compagnia di San Paolo, Council for the
RT @hilaoj: Had a nice dinner &
interesting conversation about
Macedonia’s name issue with a
European Marshall Fellow from Athens.
5:13 PM Jul 2nd, 2009
Fall 2009 European Marshall Memorial Fellows Kristóf Szombati,
international relations coordinator, Lehet más a politika!, Hungary;
Ionut Sibian, executive director, Civil Society Development
Foundation, Romania; Thijs Niemantsverdriet, reporter, Vrij
Nederland, The Netherlands; and GMF Bucharest Office Manager
Anemari-Helen Necsulescu outside Ben’s Chili Bowl, in Washington,
DC, following a breakfast discussion on DC voting rights.
European MMFs travel to U.S. cities
to build networks and explore issues
that face the transatlantic relationship:
http://tinyurl.com/lp9dq8
1:56 PM Jun 26th, 2009
Sasha
Kapadia
On March 5, GMF celebrated the
10th anniversary of the American
Marshall Memorial Fellowship (MMF)
program. More than 100 alumni,
current and former GMF staff, embassy
representatives, and assorted friends of
the German Marshall Fund and the MMF
program attended a reception on Capitol
Hill marking the occasion.
U.S. Congressman Erik Paulsen (MMF
2007) spoke at the reception about how
the MMF program opened his eyes to new
issues and new perspectives and how
it has made him a better legislator and
representative. 
American Marshall
Memorial Fellowship
program celebrates its
10th anniversary on
Capitol Hill
SPOTLIGHT
24 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
United States and Italy, Fundação Luso-Americana,
German Consulate General San Francisco, Patronat
Catalunya Mon, and ZEIT-Stiftung Ebelin and Gerd
Bucerius. Please visit the GMF website for a full
list of the 2009 MMF selection partners and city
coordinators.
U.S. Marshall Forum on Transatlantic
Affairs reunites fellows
From April 30 to May 3, GMF hosted the 2009 U.S.
Marshall Forum on Transatlantic Affairs.This was the
first Marshall Forum to be held in
Washington, DC, and it offered GMF
the opportunity to welcome nearly
90 Marshall Memorial Fellows
(MMFs) from across the United States and Europe
back to GMF’s headquarters.
The three-day Forum reviewed the first 100 days of
the Obama administration and covered a range of
topics relevant to the transatlantic
relationship. Keynote speakers
included Paula Dobriansky,
former under secretary of state
for democracy and global affairs; Tim Adams,
former under secretary of treasury for international
affairs; Nick Burns, former U.S.
ambassador to NATO and under
secretary of state for political
affairs; and Catherine Raggio, secretary of the
Maryland Department of Disabilities.
In October, GMF also hosted a similar event for
MMFs in Berlin, Germany, celebrating 20 years after
the fall of the Berlin Wall that was mentioned under
the Covening section of this report.
Comparative Domestic Policy Program
Empowering local leaders to introduce innovative
strategies to their communities by connecting
practitioners who can share insights about policy
successes and challenges, the Comparative
Domestic Policy (CDP) program works within the
framework of its Transatlantic Cities Network (TCN),
a network of 25 cities whose leaders and decision-
makers the CDP program supports with tools
including research fellowships, study tours, issue-
specific local workshops and researched multimedia
web content.
The CDP program works within four conceptual
areas that encompass key policy challenges
facing cities across the United States and Europe,
including mobility, affordable housing, workforce
training, and sustainable economic development.
Focus areas are framed as aspirations and include:
The Affordable City is one in which citizens of
all economic strata have access to basic resources,
including housing, healthcare, transportation, food
and cultural amenities. 
The Educated City is one in which all adults can
obtain skills and training to prepare them for jobs that
provide at least a living wage, and youth are exposed
to opportunities to develop into productive and
engaged drivers of regional economies and culture.
The Integrated City is one in which citizens of all
ethnic and national backgrounds, in all stages of life
and from all parts of the region are able to actively
participate in and take leadership of the civic,
economic, political and cultural life of the city, and
have equitable access to institutions and resources.
The Sustainable City is one in which the built
environment, including both individual structures and
infrastructure networks, is designed to minimize the
impact on the natural environment while continually
creating new economic opportunities and adequately
providing for the overall health of its citizens.
Marshall Forum summary http://tr.im/
ll9m includes podcast interviews with
Nick Burns, Paula Dobriansky, Tim
Adams, others
11:40 AM May 14th, 2009
Marshall Forum wrapped up this
morning. Thanks to all the MMF alumni
who participated, organized, and
otherwise made it a great event.
10:40 AM May 3rd, 2009
WashPost’s Dana Milbank is keynoting
Marshall Forum opening dinner and has
room in stitches. http://www.gmfus.
org/marshallforum
8:00 PM Apr 30th, 2009
2009 annual report 25
In cooperation with the Bank of America Foundation and the Compagnia di San Paolo,
with additional support from the Ford Foundation, TCN provides a framework that
creates opportunities for selected representatives from 25 cities in the
United States and Europe to exchange information and ideas about shared policy
challenges, innovative policy solutions, and best practices.
2009 activities included:
Central Texas Transatlantic Rail Workshop
The workshop brought five European rail and public transportation experts to San Antonio, San
Marcos, and Austin, Texas from February 18-20, to help local leaders and the broader public think
about ways to address the challenges inherent in several passenger rail initiatives—commuter rail,
light rail, bus rapid transit, and intercity rail. The workshop consisted of closed-door meetings with
local decision-makers, agency leaders, nonprofits, and other individuals, as well as three full days
of panel presentations open to the public in each city.
Great Lakes Regionalism and Economic Development
In September, GMF, with the support of the Ford Foundation and in close cooperation with local
leaders, hosted workshops in Cleveland, Ohio, and Detroit, Michigan, to examine the
concept of regionalism. Themes included the development of regional identities and
how regional strategies can help promote economic development.  The workshops drew
on the experiences of both older industrial European cities as well as local and regional leaders
to explore a number of topics relating to these concepts. The workshops were the final phase of
a study tour conducted in June that took 12 civic leaders from across the Great Lakes
Region in the United States to examine how the Piemonte region in Italy and the Ruhr
region in Germany have developed innovative and successful economic development
strategies through regional governance and cooperation. 
Portland and Oakland Active Transportation
GMF was pleased to help organize the Transatlantic Active Transportation Workshops, held
September 27 to October 3, in Oakland, California, and Portland, Oregon. The workshops brought
together local stakeholders and community representatives with a small delegation of European
mobility experts to discuss their experiences developing and implementing integrated transportation
strategies with a particular emphasis on incorporating cycling into a region’s mobility plan.
Strategies for Transforming to
a Green Economy: Lessons from
Germany
From October 24-31, a delegation of state,
local, and regional policymakers and
stakeholders visited Berlin, Leipzig, and
Hamburg, where they conducted briefings,
site visits and high-level meetings with
government, non-profit, and business leaders
working to design and implement technologies
and infrastructure to reduce carbon emissions
and stimulate economic growth.
 Transatlantic Cities Network
SPOTLIGHT
GMF-supported RT @modeld: Turin
and Essen: Turnaround Lessons for
Detroit: http://bit.ly/mQaym #europe
#transatlantic
5:19 PM Jul 15th, 2009
Great convo with CEO of W Industries
about manufacturing alternatives in
Detroit- Wrkshp 2morrow should be
very interesting
11:20 AM Sep 17th, 2009
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: Lessons for
Pittsburgh from Turin, Italy, and Ruhr
Valley, Germany http://bit.ly/Ab5fg
10:02 AM Aug 17th, 2009
Audio, video, and PowerPoint
presentations from the U.S. workshops
are higlighted at: www.gmfus.org/
template/page.cfm?page_id=561
Valentino Castellani, former Mayor of Torino [front left], discusses
the Detroit workshops with other study tour participants and guests at
the Great Lakes Regionalism and Economic Development conference.
Brent
Riddle
26 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Manfred Wörner Seminar
The 27th
Manfred Wörner Seminar, which brings
together 15 American and 15 German young
leaders to discuss U.S.–German and U.S.–European
defense and security policies, was held in Berlin,
Brussels, and Bonn in May.
In 2009, participants included representatives
from the University of the Federal Armed Forces
in Munich, several staffers from the German
Bundestag, the German Foreign Office, and
the German Council on Foreign Relations, and
representatives from the U.S. Department of
Defense, the U.S. Department of State, EADS North
America, AEI, the Council on Foreign Relations, and
Chemonics International.
The group’s program included briefings by senior
representatives of the German Ministry of Defense
and the European Commission. In addition,
participants met with Dirk Brengelmann, deputy
permanent representative of Germany to NATO,
Egon Ramms, commander of NATO’s Joint Forces
Command in Brunssum, and Hans Ulrich Klose,
member of the German Bundestag and deputy
chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
APSA Congressional Fellowship
Each year, the American Political Science
Association (APSA) Congressional Fellowship
program, with the support of GMF, provides support
for two mid-career German professionals to
participate in a ten–month fellowship on Capitol
Hill to gain an insider’s view of the inner workings
of the federal government. The U.S. fellows secure
their own jobs as legislative assistants in the U.S.
Congress by contacting member offices directly. To
date, GMF has supported the participation of 52
German fellows.
The 2008-2009 fellows were Dr. Camilla Bausch,
senior fellow and head of energy and climate at
Ecologic in Berlin, and Dr. Alexander Doerrbecker,
executive assistant at the Federal Ministry of
Justice.
For the 2009-2010 program, the two fellows are
Dr. Ulrike Hornung, a counselor at the Federal
Ministry of the Interior (Division of Counterterrorism
and International Cooperation), and Sonja Regler,
Ph.D. candidate at FU Berlin, where she researched
Chinese-American interaction in the Darfur Crisis.
Peter R. Weitz Journalism Prize ceremony
On July 13, GMF hosted Swedish Ambassador
Jonas Hafström to address the recipients of the
Peter R. Weitz Prize for excellence
and originality in U.S. reporting
on Europe and the transatlantic
relationship. The Weitz Prize, received this year
by The Washington Post reporter Tara Bahrampour
and Nicholas Kulish of The New York Times was
established in 1999 in memory of Peter R. Weitz,
former director of programs at GMF, for his interest
in promoting coverage of European affairs by
American journalists.
Bahrampour, a staff writer with The Washington
Post, was awarded the $10,000 senior prize for her
reporting on the war in Georgia and its aftermath
in 2008. For his reporting on Germany, Kulish, the
Berlin bureau chief of The New York Times, was
awarded the $5,000 junior prize for outstanding
coverage of Europe by a journalist under 35.
Swedish DC Ambo Jonas Hafstrom
speaks at journalism awards for NYT’s
Kulish and WaPo’s Bahrampour http://
bit.ly/eRERZ #journalism #europe
1:28 PM Jul 15th, 2009
Peter Weitz Junior Prize Winner Nicholas Kulish and Senior Prize
Winner Tara Bahrampour are congratulated by GMF President
Craig Kennedy.
Ashley
vonClausburg
2009 annual report 27
Strategic Grantmaking
The Strategic Grantmaking Program fosters policy
research across the range of transatlantic issues.
GMF focuses on specific issue areas each year
and invites individual proposals to be submitted. In
2009, issue areas included the Mediterranean, Asia,
Turkey, and NATO. Recipients included: European
Council on Foreign Relations, European Centre for
International Political Economy, Economic Policy
Research Foundation of Turkey, Paralleli Institute,
Center for European Reform, and the International
Centre for Democratic Transition. 
GMF has awarded two larger strategic grants to
forge partnerships with the Italian Institute for
International Affairs and Bruegel.
Italian Institute for International Affairs
The Italian Institute for International Affairs
(Istituto Affari Internazionali — IAI) is Italy’s major
research center in the fields of international
politics, security, and economics. The partnership
focuses on southern Europe, North Africa, and the
Mediterranean and leverages each institution’s
intellectual expertise, convening capabilities, and
networks in Washington and across Europe. This
effort focuses on an enhanced program of research
and analysis spanning key issues, such as new
actors in the Mediterranean, maritime security
issues, and emerging opportunities and challenges
for Euroatlantic cooperation.
Bruegel
Bruegel is a European economic policy institute
based in Brussels. The partnership leverages
each institution’s intellectual expertise, convening
capabilities, and networks in Washington and
in Europe. Among the program areas covered in
the partnership are the financial crisis; Central
and Eastern European (CEE) economies and
economic relations with the CEE countries; and
climate change policies and competitiveness. The
collaboration includes the development of research
products, organizing conferences and seminars,
written publications for external audiences,
and programming for fellows, staff, and other
important visitors.
Black Sea Trust for Regional
Cooperation
Based in Bucharest, Romania, the Black Sea Trust
for Regional Cooperation (BST) was founded in
2007 by GMF and four partners: the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, the Romanian
government, and the Ministry of Defence of the
Government of Latvia. Since its founding, BST has
provided more than 150 grants totaling just under
$4 million to local and national NGOs, regional
governmental entities, community groups, policy
institutes, and other associations in Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Moldova, Romania,
Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine.
BST promotes regional cooperation
and good governance in the Wider
Black Sea region; accountable,
transparent, and open governments; strong,
effective civic sectors; and independent and
professional media. In its second year of funding,
Held on the island of Kalymnos, Dodecanese/Greece, from June 30
to July 5, BST supported the International Black Sea Symposium
(IBSS). Launched in 2008, IBSS contributes to dialogue, under-
standing, and cooperation in the Black Sea region and beyond by
providing a forum for study, dialogue, and networking in a multi-
cultural and interdisciplinary environment.
Grantee success story: Civil
Development Agency: http://www.
gmfus.org/template/page.cfm?page_
id=581
Unknown
28 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
BST grants focused specifically on increasing citizen
engagement; transparency, accountability, and
inclusiveness of governments; free and independent
media; dialogue on critical development issues for
societies; conflict resolution/prevention; raising
awareness on regional issues; and increasing
regional linkages and shared practices.
Additionally, BST staff work to foster transatlantic
dialogue on the Black Sea region and its issues,
to promote cooperation between
countries in the region, and to
connect political and civic actors
throughout the region and with counterparts from
Central and East European countries.
Throughout the past year, BST organized study tours
to Georgia, Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Turkey, and Russia.
Study tour delegations were comprised of members
of the U.S. Congress, members of the German
Bundestag, policymakers, analysts, and journalists
from both the United States and the EU. The study
tours included zones of conflict (Transdniestria) and
zones of political tension (Crimea). Participants
met and discussed at length with political and civic
leaders, journalists, analysts, businessmen, and
government officials from the countries mentioned
above. The tours allowed participants to look deeper
into the new realities in the countries and in the
region, and to better understand the local needs
and challenges.
The Black Sea Trust, in cooperation with the
Bertelsmann Foundation, TEPAV (Turkey), and the
International Center for Black Sea Studies (Greece),
launched the Commission on the Black Sea in
January 2009. The Commission was established
to reassess the importance of developments in
the region and develop a comprehensive, policy-
oriented study on the future of the Black Sea
region. Members of the Commission are prominent
policymakers and analysts with an interest and
expertise in the region. Over the past year, the
Commission met to discuss the region and its
relations with and relevance to the EU and the U.S.
In 2010, the Commission will produce and publicize
a set of policy recommendations for further
development and increased stability in the region,
addressed to all actors interested and involved in
the Black Sea.
Balkan Trust for Democracy
Since its inception in 2003, the Balkan Trust
for Democracy (BTD) has invested more than
$18 million in 661 indigenous initiatives that
work toward building productive, democratic, and
peaceful societies in Southeastern Europe. Based
in Belgrade, BTD awards grants to civic groups,
nongovernmental organizations, news media, think
tanks, governments, and educational institutions in
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia,
Kosovo, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania,
and Serbia.  BTD is a public-private partnership that
was created by GMF, the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), and the Charles
Stewart Mott Foundation, with additional support
from the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, the Embassy of
the Kingdom of Netherlands in Belgrade, the Greek
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency, the Czech
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Compagnia di San Paolo,
the Robert Bosch Stiftung, and the Danish Ministry
of Foreign Affairs.
“It it not important how they vote, but
how we count their votes” New blog
post on the upcoming #elections in
#Moldova: http://tr.im/tH0N
11:20 AM Jul 23rd, 2009
Alida Vracic, from the Bosnian think tank Populari, speaks in front
of the Bosnian Parliament.
Unknown
2009 annual report 29
BTD has built a strong reputation as an organization
identifying projects that have significant impact
in promoting democratic development and
reconciliation in local communities or region-wide. 
The varied projects and organizations supported
by BTD during this past year have included a
project based in Croatia that aimed to improve the
employment prospects of national minorities by
creating minority employment councils; a project
in Macedonia that successfully advocated against
unfair political campaigning practices; a project in
Bulgaria that organized a series of public debates
between youth from the political right and left; a
project in Albania that supported the increased
policymaking involvement of citizens from rural
communities; and a watchdog project in Montenegro
that monitored members of the National Parliament
of Montenegro to better hold Parliament members
accountable to their constituents.
BTD has also strengthened its role in connecting
stakeholders throughout the Balkans and abroad,
becoming a “hub” for regional debate and the
sharing of ideas while also
raising awareness of important
issues in the Balkans. Regionally-
focused projects supported by BTD this past year
included an initiative by seven leading civil society
organizations from throughout the Balkans to
address European Union enlargement efforts toward
the region.
The Bulgaria Fund, a legacy program of USAID
that is managed by BTD, both reinforces and
complements BTD’s own network
and grants. In its third year
of operations, the Bulgaria
Fund completed the grantmaking phase of the
program. At the conclusion of this phase, the
Fund had supported 48 grants totaling more than
$2.4 million. Funded projects included those
intended to advance the rule of law and judicial
and governmental reform, to ensure economic
opportunities and social integration for vulnerable
groups, or to generate a more competitive labor
force and labor market through training programs
and career development services. The Fund now
focuses solely on the monitoring and evaluation of
its supported projects, and is expected to complete
this final phase of operations by the end of 2010.
Trust for Civil Society in CEE
The Trust for Civil Society in Central and Eastern
Europe (CEE) was launched in 2001 as a joint
$75-million, 10-year project of GMF, the Ford
Foundation, the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation,
the Open Society Institute, and the Rockefeller
Brothers Fund. Additional donors include Atlantic
Philanthropies and the Pfizer Foundation. Today, the
Trust is an independent public charity organization.
The Trust’s mission is to strengthen the long-
term sustainable development of civil societies in
Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania,
Slovakia, and Slovenia. The Trust’s grantmaking
programs support civil society institutions,
activities, and projects in each country. To date,
the Trust has awarded nearly $50 million in grants
to organizations in the target countries. The Trust
is managed under the leadership of Executive
Director Rayna Gavrilova with six staff members.
Distinguished advisory committees in each country
of the Trust’s operations assist with the proposal
review process.
EU opens up visa-free travel to Serbians,
Macedonians, and Montenegrins. GMF’s
Ivan Vejvoda blogs about what it means
http://bit.ly/7pPNsm
12:35 PM Dec 22nd, 2009
GMF grantee spotlight -- Na Chisto,
a #Bulgaria TV show that is tackling
corruption: http://bit.ly/2Z23Yp
2:37 PM May 30th, 2009
BTD Executive Director Ivan Vejvoda [second from right] leads a BTD Advisory
Board meeting in October with [from right] Douglas Davidson, Senior State
Department Advisor, U.S. Helsinki Commission; Ivan Vejvoda, Executive Director
of the Balkan Trust for Democracy; Srdjan Dvornik, freelance journalist; Pavlina
Filipova, Program Officer, Balkan Trust for Democracy; and Nathan Koeshall,
Program Officer, Balkan Trust for Democracy.
Snezana
Vukovic
30 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Immigration Grantmaking
Immigration is atop of the policy agenda on both
sides of the Atlantic, and the exchange between
research and policymakers is key to an informed
debate. In May 2009, the GMF Immigration and
Integration Program launched a new large-scale
grantmaking initiative, the Transatlantic Study
Teams. This new grantmaking program focuses on
a select topic area and gathers the leading experts
on this topic to compile existing data, engage in
a dialogue with policymakers, and promote open
dialogue to advance the policy debate. Study Teams
are chosen by a competitive selection process
based on the overall quality of their proposal and its
policy relevance, institutional strength, sustainability,
and potential for synergies.
The Study Team 2009 focused on the topic
of climate-induced migration. Environmental
deterioration, including natural disasters, rising
sea levels, and more-frequent droughts could
cause millions of people to leave their homes in
the coming decades. The debate on this issue is
currently left off of legislative agendas because of
a lack of knowledge about the relationship between
climate change and its links to migration. GMF’s
Study Team aims to fill in this knowledge gap and
bring the topic to the attention of policymakers and
other stakeholders.
Chaired by the Institute for the Study of International
Migration at Georgetown University and co-chaired
by the United Nations University Institute for the
Environment and Human Security, the Study Team
consists of the following participating organizations:
The University of California at Davis
The University of San Francisco
Bonn International Center for Conversion
Adelphi Research
Overseas Development Institute
The International Organization for Migration (IOM)
World Resources Institute
German Technical Cooperation (GTZ)
Refugees International
Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration,
U.S. Department of State
European Commission
Ministry for Intergenerational Affairs, Family,
Women and Integration, State of North Rhine-
Westphalia, Federal Republic of Germany
In June and September, high-level expert
meetings were held in Berlin and Washington,
DC, respectively, which targeted policymakers and
allowed them to give their input into the projects
that the Study Team would conduct throughout the
year. The Study Team has prepared background
documents on the phenomenon of climate-induced
migration and has organized site visits to areas
currently or potentially affected by climate-induced
migration in Senegal and Mexico. Dissemination
and dialogue with relevant stakeholders in the policy
community will continue in Brussels in April 2010,
and a final report, providing a review of findings and
recommendations, will be published in June 2010.
Dieter Berg, chairman of the board of the Robert Bosch Stiftung,
speaks at the Transatlantic Forum for Migration and Integration din-
ner event held at the Bob Bullock Texas State History Museum in July.
Tom
Wassman
2009 annual report 31
Economic Policy Grantmaking
GMF’s Economic Policy Program is dedicated
to promoting cooperation between the United
States and Europe on domestic and international
economic policies as vital instruments of global
prosperity. Over the course of the last year, the
program’s grantmaking, research, and convening
activities focused on monitoring several major
policy developments in the United States and
Europe — including in particular the impact of the
economic crisis on both the transatlantic economies
and developing countries — and fostering greater
cooperation across sectors and across the Atlantic
in key areas critical to the transatlantic economic
relationship
Through its grantmaking, the program supported a
wide range of institutions and individuals working
on various trade, agriculture, aid, and development
issues.
Grants were awarded in 2009 to the following
individuals and institutions:
Steven Barry
Independent Consultant, New Haven, CT
BirdLife International
Brussels, Belgium
David Blandford
Penn State University, State College, PA
Paul Blustein
Journalist-in-Residence, The Brookings Institute,
Washington, DC
Centre for Economic Policy Research
London, United Kingdom
EuroCare
Brussels, Belgium
European Centre for International Political
Economy
Brussels, Belgium
The Evian Group
Lausanne, Switzerland
Farmsubsidy.org/EU Transparency.org
London, United Kingdom
Cesar Hidalgo
Research Fellow, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA
Ralph Heimlich
Independent Consultant, Laurel, MD
Initiative for Global Development
Washington, DC
Institute for European Environmental Policy
London, United Kingdom
32 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Patrick Jomini
Groupe d’Economie Mondiale, Sciences-Po,
Paris, France
Rick Leach
Independent Consultant, Washington, DC
Meridian Institute
Washington, DC
Timothy Othieno
Independent Consultant, London, United Kingdom
North South Institute
Ottawa, Canada
Overseas Development Institute
London, United Kingdom
Katy Schalch
Freelance Journalist, Washington, DC
Uwe Schneider
Centre for Marine and Atmospheric Science,
Hamburg, German
Transport and Environment
Brussels, Belgium
The Trade Partnership
Washington, DC
University of California
Berkeley, CA
Roger Waite
Editor of Agrafacts/Agrafofucs, Brussels, Belgium
The World Trade Institute
Bern, Switzerland
Germany-related Grantmaking
The Germany-related Grantmaking Program provides
support to institutions and programs dedicated
to strengthening the U.S.-German relationship.
In 2009, grants were awarded to the American
Council on Germany, the American Political Science
Association, the Association of Former Members
of Congress, the Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer
Auswaertige Politik, and the American Institute for
Contemporary German Studies.
2009 annual report 33
Successful transatlantic relations depend on strong
partnerships built up over time, across sectors, and
between regions of the world. The German Marshall
Fund has integrated this model of partnership into
its organizational strategy as a means to achieve
greater cooperation between North America, Europe,
and other regions. This approach has led to the
inclusion in the transatlantic community and the
GMF network of a broad range of individuals —
policymakers, journalists, nonprofit leaders, and
business leaders — and organizations cutting
across the full spectrum of society.
GMF understands the crucial role that partnerships
play in affecting and addressing the concerns
facing the transatlantic community. GMF’s goal
is to tackle the fundamental issues surrounding
the U.S.–European relationship by drawing on an
extensive network of individuals and institutions
on both sides of the Atlantic. Through partnering
with other organizations, GMF is able to ensure
that its projects, programs, and activities bring a
unique perspective and provide innovative solutions
to transatlantic problems rather than recapitulate
existing work. GMF actively seeks forward-looking
solutions and partners to develop a sustainable,
effective transatlantic community.
GMF pursues a variety of partnership models
based on a shared vision, such as developing joint
initiatives, undertaking matching funding projects,
providing grants for projects carried out by other
institutions and individuals, developing fully granted
programs, and seeking in-kind contributions. GMF is
grateful to all of its partners for their contributions
to furthering transatlantic cooperation.
A number of organizations have made financial
contributions to GMF’s activities, including:
Air Berlin
Airbus Americas, Inc.
Airbus Military
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Atlantic Forum on Israel
Bank of America Foundation
Bank of Sweden Tercentenary Foundation
Barrow Cadbury Trust
Bertelsmann Foundation
Brandeis University
British Council
Centre for European Studies
Center for Global Partnership
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation
Cleveland Foundation
Compagnia di San Paolo
Daimler
Gaetan
Miclotte
34 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Department of National Defence, Canada
Deutsche Post/DHL
Deutsche Telekom
EGMONT
Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands,
Belgrade
ENEL
European Union Delegation of the European
Commission
Federal Government of Belgium
Ford Foundation
Fortis Bank
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian
Fundação Luso-Americana
Fundación BBVA
German Federal Foreign Office
German Federal Ministry of Economics and
Technology
Group d’Economie Mondiale
Irving Shipbuilding Inc.
KFW Bankengruppe
Koç Holding
Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung
Legatum Institute
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation
Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Sweden
Ministry of Defence Republic of Latvia
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Belgium
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Romania
Office Cherifien des Phosphates Group
Rockefeller Brothers Fund
Robert Bosch Stiftung
Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway
Sciences Po
Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation
Swedish Foundation for International Cooperation
in Research and Higher Education
Swedish International Development Cooperation
Agency
Tipping Point Foundation
Tokyo Foundation
Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s
Association
U.S. Agency for International Development
U.S. Embassy to Germany
U.S. Mission to the European Union
U.S. Mission to NATO
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation
ZEIT-Stiftung Ebelin und Gerd Bucerius
2009 annual report 35
In 2009, GMF made the jump into social media,
and you will find us on Twitter (@gmfus or www.
twitter.com/gmfus), Facebook (search German
Marshall Fund), and YouTube. Sign
up to follow GMF on these services,
and you can join a community of
people around the world interested in transatlantic
issues.
GMF’s website, www.gmfus.org, is the best way to
stay informed about what GMF is doing. On the
web, GMF continues its blog, video, podcasts, and
publication outreach. Such expanded capability
allows GMF to continue bringing expertise on
transatlantic issues to the wider public. GMF
podcasts are also available through Apple’s iTunes
at www.apple.com. After installing the software,
navigate to the podcast section of the iTunes Store
and search for the “German Marshall Fund” in the
search field. When the GMF icon appears, click
“Subscribe.” When new content is posted, iTunes
will automatically download the latest podcast.
There is no charge for subscribing to podcasts
through iTunes.
Podcasts and videos include
discussions, interviews, and
keynote speeches that examine
the most challenging issues facing North America
and Europe. In 2009, GMF produced media
content with key international figures, including
Peter MacKay, Canadian Minister of National
Defence and Minister for the Atlantic Gateway; the
Honorable Madeleine Albright, former U.S. Secretary
of State; Michael Leigh,  Director-General for EU
enlargement; Douglas Alexander, U.K. Secretary of
State for International Development; Ambassador
Demetrios Marantis, Deputy U.S.
Trade Representative; Carl Bildt,
Swedish Foreign Minister; Wolfgang
Schaeuble, German Interior Minister; George
Voinovich, U.S.  Senator (R-OH); and Valdis Zatlers,
President of Latvia.
The GMF Blog is an open platform for continued
dialogue. New issues are posted weekly, including
all articles from the Transatlantic Take series. GMF
encourages individuals wishing to stay actively
engaged on the U.S.-Europe agenda to comment
on the blog, which can be accessed from the GMF
home page or at http://blog.gmfus.org. The GMF
blog addresses a variety of critical issues currently
being debated within the transatlantic community.
In 2009, blog posts covered numerous topics,
including the Lisbon Treaty, the global financial
crisis, the new U.S. administration, German
parliamentary elections, COP15 and climate change,
NATO, and Afghanistan, among others.
GMF publications present research on a variety of
transatlantic topics by staff, fellows, and partners
of the organization.  New publications in 2009
include a report by the Transatlantic Taskforce
on Development, several publications focusing
on climate change leading up to the COP15
negotiations, a new paper series on immigration
to complement GMF’s programming in this area, a
report by the Transatlantic Academy on migration
and integration, and several foreign policy series. 
GMF publications can be downloaded for free at
www.gmfus.org/publications. Hard copies can also
be requested by contacting GMF’s headquarters
in Washington, DC.  New publications are posted
frequently, and GMF encourages individuals to check
the website for new content or to subscribe to the
GMF newsletter for updates.
Think tank softball alert! GMF sweeps
@heritage in doubleheader last night!
10-8 and 6-2. Akin to the Nationals
sweeping the Red Sox.
9:50 AM Jul 16th, 2009
New 3-part GMF Video: Job Creation,
Innovation, and the Importance of the
TEC for the Transatlantic Relationship
http://bit.ly/1Lx74i
1:26 PM Oct 27th, 2009
UK Minister discusses #Afghanistan,
#development, and the international
aid system in new GMF Podcast:
http://bit.ly/23iily
3:55 PM Aug 17th, 2009
Gaetan
Miclotte
36 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Consolidated Balance Sheet
May 31, 2009 (With Comparative Totals For 2008)
Assets	 2009	 2008
Cash And Cash Equivalents	 $16,670,383	 $17,569,356
Investments	 173,535,754	 219,874,430
Grants Receivable	 8,745,290	 2,224,914
Property And Equipment, net	 17,176,474	 17,578,876
Other Assets	 302,536	 748,690
		 $216,430,437	 $257,996,266
Liabilities And Net Assets
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses	 $1,995,649	 $2,099,090
Deferred revenue	 19,429,338	 20,834,992
Grants payable	 1,998,642	 1,550,947
	 	 23,423,629	 24,485,029
Commitments And Contingencies (Notes 4 And 5)
Net Assets
Unrestricted
Undesignated	 166,861,565	 208,889,313
Board-designated	 14,747,128	 15,861,544
		 181,608,693	 224,750,857
Temporarily restricted	 11,398,115	 8,760,380
		 193,006,808	 233,511,237
		 $ 216,430,437	 $257,996,266
The German Marshall Fund Of The United States
A Memorial To The Marshall Plan And Subsidiary
2009 annual report 37
Consolidated Statement of Activities
Years Ended May 31, 2009 and 2008
	 2009
		 Temporarily
	 Unrestricted	 Restricted	 Total	 2008
Support and revenue:
Investment (loss) income	 $(23,040,557)	 $–	 $(23,040,557)	 $11,331,562
Non–federal grants and contributions	 166,505	 17,233,583	 17,400,088	 15,894,162
Federal grants	 4,508,618	 –	 4,508,618	 2,167,923
Other	 500,540	 –	 500,540	 1,256,823
Net assets released from restrictions	 14,595,848	 (14,595,848)	 –	 –
Total support and revenue	 (3,269,046)	 2,637,735	 (631,311)	 30,650,470
Expenses:
Program services:
Internal projects expense	 13,944,483	 –	 13,944,483	 13,264,126
Grant expense	 11,825,514	 –	 11,825,514	 8,543,482
Management and general	 13,593,858	 –	 13,593,858	 12,928,986
Fundraising	 509,263	 –	 509,263	 384,453
Total expenses	 39,873,118	 –	 39,873,118	 35,121,047
Change in net assets	 (43,142,164)	 2,637,735	 (40,504,429)	 (4,470,577)
Net assets
Beginning	 224,750,857	 8,760,380	 233,511,237	 237,981,814
Ending	 $181,608,693	 $11,398,115	 $193,006,808	 $233,511,237
38 GERMAN MARSHALL FUND
Guido Goldman
Co-Chair
Marc E. Leland
co-chair
Michael Ahearn
Margaret Carlson
Calvin Dooley
Marc Grossman
John Harris
Nike Irvin
Roman Martinez IV
Richard Powers
Jim Quigley
Barbara Shailor
Paul Stafford
Jenonne Walker
J. Robinson West
Suzanne Woolsey
Leah Zell Wanger
R. Craig Kennedy
president
Offices
Washington • Berlin • Bratislava • Paris
Brussels • Belgrade • Ankara • Bucharest
www.gmfus.org
