A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0
www.pactworld.org
Dear friends of Pact,
For nearly forty years, Pact has been driven by a passion for developing the capacity of others to discover and
build their own solutions, and take ownership over their own future.
This passion has been unflagging. Over our nearly four decades, we have had failures and successes; we
have learned from both. We have learned what works, and what to avoid; have discovered what is important,
meaningful and lasting; and recognized how we best add value and make distinctive contributions to those we
serve. This last year, we brought that hard-earned wisdom to bear as we refreshed our vision of a better world and
our role in shaping that future. We crafted a new mission and strategy for the organization that is both evolutionary
and revolutionary, affirming our core strengths and building on our past successes, while introducing new areas for
exploration, challenge, and growth.
Our new mission and strategy is a fundamental promise, both to ourselves and, more importantly, to those we serve.
It is a promise not to rest until we turn our abundant passion into practical reality. It is a promise to consistently
employ our core values to work in partnership, achieve results, and build locally owned solutions. It is a commitment
to enable systemic solutions that allow those who are vulnerable and poor to be healthier, earn a dignified living,
and benefit from the sustainable use of the natural resources around them. It represents a deep commitment to
our uniquely integrated approach as the best opportunity for effecting lasting positive change: strengthening local
capacity, forging effective governance systems and structures, and transforming the economic power of businesses
and markets into a force for development.
Pact has enabled over 12,000 local organizations, in over 60 countries, to deliver the products and services that help
people make a better life for themselves and their community. This capacity helped Yewognesh, a poor mother of
three in Woliso, Ethiopia, build a successful business, feed her children, and send each of them to school. She now
gives back — not only is she a volunteer caring for twenty orphans and training outreach workers, her oldest
daughter also does the same. It is this example of individual and collective change that inspires Pact to do more.
Pact will celebrate its fortieth anniversary next year. With the maturity that comes from nearly forty years of
experience, and the energy flowing from our new vision and direction, Pact is fully committed to make a
meaningful impact in the lives of others and to help change the world around us.
We invite you to partner with Pact in our journey as we jointly discover new and exciting ways to make a
difference in the lives of those we serve.
1971 PACT (Private Agencies Cooperating Together) is founded as a membership organization for U.S.
private voluntary organizations. PACT’s mandate under Executive Director Robert O’Brien is to
bring its members together to empower local organizations and attain sustainable development.
Mark Viso
President and CEO, Pact
Stephen Olesky
Chairman, Board of Directors, Pact
Stephen Oleskey
Mark Viso
1986 PACT wins its first projects directly
funded by USAID missions.
Stephen H. Oleskey, Chair
Partner, WilmerHale LLP
Dr. M. Lyndon Haviland, Vice Chair
President, Lyndon Haviland & Co. LLC
James Bernard
Global Director, Partners in Learning,
Microsoft Corporation
Kevin Bonderud
Communications/Public Affairs Consultant
Samantha Carey
Partner, CTPartners
Ana Rita Gonzalez
CEO, Policy Wisdom LLC
John R. Grimes
Vice President, Cook Inlet Tribal Council
Dr. Nancy J. Hafkin
Director, Knowledge Working
Bernhard H. Liese
Chair, International Health Department
Georgetown University
Delia Marshall
Vice President, Bank of New York Mellon
Mina Mauerstein-Bail
Co-President, Sirleaf Market Women’s Fund
Mark Minelli
CEO, Minelli, Inc.
Kevin Mitchell
Director of Internal Audit, BreitBurn Energy
Nancy Murphy
Executive Vice President, Grantmakers for
Effective Organizations
James Nowicki
Executive Director, JP Morgan Chase
Pamela Roussos
Chief Marketing Officer, AppFirst
Frank Sims
Retired Corporate Vice President, Cargill
Dr. Eva T. Thorne
Principal, Ignite Capital Advisors
David Wilson
Partner, Thompson Hine LLP
Offices
Directors
P a c t
P a c t B O A R D O F
WASHINGTON, DC
BELARUS
UKRAINE
NIGERIA
ETHIOPIA
CHINA
VIETNAM
CAMBODIA
THAILAND
Pact Offices
Additional Pact Programs
MYANMAR
SUDAN
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
KENYA
TANZANIA
MALAWI
MADAGASCAR
ZIMBABWE
SWAZILAND
LESOTHO
SOUTH AFRICA
NAMIBIA
EL SALVADOR
Elements
Our new strategic plan sets a clear direction founded on a
passion for results, informed by our successes and failures,
and strengthened by our core expertise.
Rather than focus on single issues we will help our partners
weave the tapestry of a healthy community: strong, transpa-
rent institutions; ownership and participation in decisions
about health, livelihoods, security, and local resources; and
access to opportunities and objective information.
Pact’s reach is broad but strategic, and our focus is systemic
change. We work with a wide range and variety of partners
among the most vulnerable as well as their representatives
in government, business and industry, civil-society organizations,
and health and educational systems. Together we create net-
works and build constituencies around issues in order to find
the best solutions in the appropriate context.
Strategic Plan 2010-2014
Our vision: A world where those who are poor and
marginalized exercise their voice, build their own
solutions, and take ownership over their future.
Our Values
Pact: A promise
People are at the center of our values. We believe that
effective stewardship leads to trust and that trust is the
foundation for change.
	
Local Solutions – Our success comes from solutions
created with the people we serve.
Partnerships – Partnerships deepen our impact and
promote empowerment.
Results – Our work must transform lives and make them
measurably better. How that change occurs is as important
as the change itself.
Our Purpose
Pact enables systemic solutions that allow those who
are poor and marginalized to earn a dignified living,
be healthy, and take part in the benefits nature provides.
We accomplish this by strengthening local capacity,
forging effective governance systems, and transforming
markets into a force for development.
Goals
• Vulnerable people access the health products, services,
	 and information they need to enjoy a healthy life.
• People with limited livelihood choices gain the resources
	 needed to be income secure.
• Resource dependent communities gain lasting benefit 	
	 from the sustainable use of the natural resources
	 around them.
S T R AT E G I C P L A N
1991 1992
PACT moves its headquarters from
New York City to Washington, D.C.
PACT dissolves its membership and establishes itself as
an independent non-profit under CEO Lou Mitchell.
Livelihoods
Pact’s market-based livelihoods development approach uses a variety
of tools and techniques to assess and develop a market for local
products, improve the capacity of local production, and strengthen
supply channels. The rural poor in Myanmar have very little access to
loans and other working capital. The Sustainable Livelihoods through
Microfinance for the Poor project has provided access to microfinance
services and stimulated a variety of small businesses. Nearly $50 million
worth of loans has been issued with a 99.9% repayment rate over the
life of the project. Currently there are over 387,000 members in more
than 6,400 villages. Community organizations constitute the institutional
foundation for long-term sustainability of this successful program.
WORTH, Pact’s award-winning women’s empowerment program, builds
on a platform of microfinance to also provide financial literacy, behavior
change messages about health, and mobilizes community resources for
a range of goals. Incorporating WORTH into programs for orphans and
vulnerable children in Tanzania has allowed mothers and other care-
givers access to capital and training with which they’ve built businesses
and generated income for their families. Group activities also provide a
platform for HIV prevention knowledge and skills.
Health
Pact has been implementing health programs for two decades, with a
focus on creating systemic change to tackle health challenges at the local
level. The Community REACH program alone reached millions of people
during its just ended eight years of impact:
• 116,000 orphans and vulnerable children received care
	 and support
• 126,000 people received counseling and testing
• 3.3 million people benefited from HIV prevention messages
Results:
• Decreased transmission of HIV
• Better care and longer lives for those living with HIV and AIDS
• Strengthened, community-based HIV and AIDS programs
	 and responses.
South Africa’s HIV prevalence rate is approximately 17%. Pact’s Umbrella
Grants Management program integrates rigorous grants management
with capacity development in a country with well-developed institutions
and resources. The result has been rapid growth in the scale and reach
of our partners’ HIV and AIDS services, and a corresponding ability to use
funds effectively and efficiently.
While China’s HIV prevalence is 0.1% nationwide, the prevalence among
injecting drug users is much higher, up to 15%. China is the first country
in Asia to initiate a large-scale response to HIV in drug users, but stigma
is strong and the program requires individuals to register. Pact works
closely with Xingcheng, a small telecoms company whose management
and staff are mostly former drug users, to create a model of work-based
rehabilitation, support, and treatment that can be replicated in other
1996 1998
Pact celebrates its 25th anniversary and launches Pactworld.org; PBS broadcasts a 30-minute
special on Pact’s literacy work in Nepal; Pact CEO Sarah Newhall testifies before the Asia and
Pacific Subcommittee of the House International Relations Committee.
Pact Institute is created to incubate innovative new programs.
Impact
R E S U LT S O N T H E g r o u n d :
businesses across the country. The Xingcheng program includes combined
work and rehab performance reviews, rehab agreements, personal mentoring,
and referrals to medical treatment. Only 5% of participants have relapsed into
drug use and the program earned praise in the Chinese government’s 2010
anti-narcotics report.
Environment
The Ustyurt Plateau is a temperate desert and ecologically unique, lying
between the Caspian and Aral seas. Change in land use management result-
ing from the breakdown of the Soviet Union, indiscriminate development of
extractive industries and high unemployment underlie the key threats to the
landscape’s sensitive ecosystem.
SCAPES, The Sustainable Conservation Approaches in Priority Ecosystems
program, is the largest global conservation program funded by USAID. Pact
and its partners Fauna & Flora International, BirdLife International, and ACDI/
VOCA are using a threats-based approach to landscape conservation in the
Ustyurt Plateau, developing new adaptive tools and creating programs to
achieve financial, social, economic, and ecological sustainability.
The Ustyurt Plateau is a 102,000 square mile transboundary landscape shared
between Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan. Our work includes landscape conserva-
tion that addresses threats to biodiversity and supports policy changes to
develop environmentally responsible laws and practices. The Saiga Antelope is
a keystone species in the Ustyurt and has decreased in numbers precipitously
in the past two decades. Threatened with widespread poaching to supply
Saiga horn to an illegal international market, the project is reinforcing local
protection and enforcing international wildlife trade laws.
Pact’s PICASO Program Holds Prosperous Future in Ethiopia
My name is Yewognesh Negatu and I live in Ethiopia. Though we were
happy, my family was struggling. I was unemployed and my husband’s
small salary was not enough to send all three of our daughters to school.
I knew the importance of an education, having worked hard to finish
school and earn my teaching certificate despite being orphaned at a
young age. I didn’t want my daughters to miss out.
Then one day, social workers from Pact’s PICASO program came to our
house to register children who could not afford school. PICASO is a
program that helps orphans and vulnerable children by providing food,
education, shelter, and other support. Because of Pact my other school-
age daughter would finally have the opportunity to get an education.
Little did I realize this would be an opportunity for me as well.
After my daughter started school, they invited mothers for a training on
income generation and helped us form a savings and credit cooperative.
With the money I borrowed and training in food preparation provided
by Pact’s partner Maedot, I started a business selling cookies for school
children. That business grew into a small restaurant, and now after five
years we are running three popular restaurants. We have even received
a contract to feed 1,000 children daily at their non-formal basic
education center.
I promised myself I’d share my success by volunteering with the PICASO
program. I am now responsible for twenty orphans. I check in with them
every week, help them with their studies, share their sorrows and happi-
ness, take them to the medical center if they are sick, and distribute school
books and uniforms. My eldest daughter is also an active, committed
volunteer responsible for another twenty children. She learned the impor-
tance of serving our community from me, and I am very proud of her.
Pact has made such a difference in our lives. Not only have I realized my
ambition to see my children well educated, I am so happy to be earning
income and providing happiness to orphans who need my care.
2001 Pact takes its HIV and AIDS work global with USAID awards for Community REACH and Civil Society
Strengthening programs; Worth magazine recognizes Pact as one of the 100 American non-profits “most
likely to save the world.”
Capacity Development
A core element of Pact’s development approach for four decades, capacity
development aims to improve the institutional capacity of local civil-society
organizations no matter what their particular goal. Our tools and services
include but are not limited to strategic planning, financial management,
organizational development, network strengthening, and effective advocacy.
For example our Local Governance Barometer has been replicated in many
places to assess the capacity and strength of local governments to respond
to its citizens and to address gaps. In Madagascar, we are considered a
leader in developing innovative tools to map access and combat corruption
and child labor. Pact’s support to our partners has improved their program
quality, access, and sustainability to male and transgender sex workers in
the Greater Mekong Region, reaching over 14,000 last year alone with
prevention activities, health care, and livelihoods initiatives.
Governance
In Cambodia, decades of centralization resulted in a lack of state account-
ability and government responsiveness to its citizens. Pact’s Local Admin-
istration and Reform Project, begun in 2005, has resulted in noticeable
policy shifts by national, provincial, and district officials on issues such
as anti-corruption, public information, outreach, and prioritizing citizen’s
2002 2002
Pact adopts Corporate Community Engagement policy, after Pact works with The Coca-
Cola Foundation Indonesia to transform four libraries into alternative education centers
where children can develop reading, writing, and communications skills.
Pact establishes six platform areas: peace building, democracy and
governance, HIV and AIDS, microfinance and livelihoods, natural
resource management, and equity and empowerment of vulnerable groups.
In SWING Program, “We Are One Family”
Bangkok is the home base for Pact’s HIV prevention program in the Greater
Mekong Region. In Bangkok alone, more than 30% of men who have
sex with men (MSM) are currently living with HIV — a clear public health
emergency — but discrimination has traditionally prevented many MSM
and other sex workers from accessing the needed prevention services. Pact,
in partnership with local community-based organizations such as SWING
(Service Workers in Groups), reaches out to this underserved group.
Pact counsels and guides SWING’s efforts to help sex workers live healthier,
safer lives and teaches others to treat them with respect and dignity. Pact
also provides financial support and organizational development. SWING
founder, Surang Janyam, credits Pact’s mentorship for helping SWING to
“walk strongly in the right direction.”
In 2010, the SWING team reached a total of 5,700 male sex workers, and
brought 63% of the total male sex worker population of Bangkok and
Pattaya together for education on preventing HIV and sexually transmitted
infections. SWING staff go to the bars where sex workers and MSM can be
found, using creative techniques to raise awareness. SWING recently hosted
a street fashion show where the outfits were made entirely of condoms.
Staff then distributed condoms and information about HIV and AIDS to the
gathering crowds. “I feel at home here,” said one sex worker, “And when I
come here I meet friends. I feel like we are one family.”
Approach
i n t e g r at e d
concerns. Councilors have accepted social development over political
party agendas as an appropriate goal for project planning purposes, and
they are demonstrating greater ownership over project implementation
due to more successful outreach activities. In Kyrgyzstan, under the Civil
Advocacy for Reform and Stability Program, 15 civil-society organizations
have influenced changes in 20 legislative and policy actions taken by the
government on several issues ranging from land reform to anti-corruption
to rights of the elderly. Sustainability is ensured by the establishment of
citizen committees and monitoring commissions. In the Zimbabwean
city of Bulawayo where the city council has been crippled by a lack of
resources, the “Work for Zimbabwe” program has galvanized commu-
nities to improve municipal services, support the council, and hold it
to high standards of service delivery. Our programs prove that where
institutions are weak, citizen participation, knowledge exchange, and
advocacy are powerful tools for positive change.
Access to Markets
In the past year, Pact broke new ground with its Signature Programs.
The purpose of Pact’s Mines to Markets program is to maximize the
positive and mitigate the negative impact of extractive industries. In
partnership with ITRI, a tin users association, we are implementing a
“bag and tag” program which traces minerals back to their original
“conflict free” status in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda,
and elsewhere in the Great Lakes Region.
Pact is pioneering a Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and
Degradation (REDD+) program with the Royal Government of
Cambodia’s forestry administration. Working with community
forestry groups, Pact is establishing safeguards to protect forestland
from fire, illegal logging, and other threats.
2005 Pact demonstrates a new competency working with the extractive industry, leading to the eventual establishment
of the Mines to Markets signature program; the Local Governance Barometer is created to facilitate progress
toward good governance.
Freedom of the Press Inspirational in Belarus
Gantsevichi District in the Brest Region of Belarus has no active
civil-society organizations or political parties. Up to 60% of the
population is rural, and small villages are widely dispersed among
forests and swamps. It is not what one typically expects from a
hot spot of civil activism and political opinion — but that’s exactly
what the area is thanks to one small, independent newspaper.
Petr Guzaevski, founder of the Gantsavitski Chas newspaper,
believes that access to information is a path to social change.
Though Petr was arrested after releasing the first issue of what
began as a homemade newsletter, the community embraced
the only independent news source in the district. And just as
Petr understood, readers were not content to simply read about
problems: they want to solve them.
Poised to grow his role as newspaper editor into that of civic
leader, Petr participated in Pact’s Leadership Fellows program
to learn more effective ways of engaging his fellow citizens.
Petr successfully advocated for the expansion of a local hospital’s
ambulance fleet, and helped local residents advocate for gov-
ernment-funded housing repairs. Pact then issued a Community
and Media Development Fund grant to Gantsavitski Chas to help
build staff qualifications, enhance the system of independent
dissemination of news in the region, and increase quality.
Today, with Pact’s support, Gantsavitski Chas is thriving in Brest.
Citizens see Petr as an inspirational problem solver who has bold-
ly and professionally tackled issues ranging from human rights to
housing to social services. More importantly, citizens are inspired
to find solutions themselves and empowered to work alongside
political authorities to defend and maintain their rights.
2008 2011
Pact takes on Cambodia’s first Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation
(REDD+) program; Staff doctors in Myanmar mobilize for recovery efforts in more than
700 villages in Myanmar during the devastating aftermath of Cyclone Nargis.
PACT’S ANNIVERSARY
Individual Success Through Community Strength
Mya Lay Khine and her husband are both HIV-positive. When
she first received the news, she was “shocked beyond console.”
Even her parents turned their back on her, and though she was
able to get treatment and stay healthy, the emotional toll was
heavy. That began to change when Mya Lay Khine and her
friends formed the “Shwe Yaung Eain Met” WORTH women’s
empowerment group and received training from Pact staff to
help them save and earn money. After a few months with the
group, Mya Lay Khine began a small retail business selling tea
leaves, as well as raising chickens in her backyard for additional
income. She is now supporting her children and her parents.
Perhaps the greatest achievement is Mya Lay Khine’s feeling of
self-worth. Working and earning her own income has helped
Mya Lay Khine feel “like a normal person again.” With the trust
and support of her fellow WORTH women, Mya Lay Khine now
faces the future with joy and confidence.
40th
40
Pact was founded 40 years ago with an age-old truism in mind: with
a little knowledge and a few resources, people anywhere can find ways
to tackle and solve their own challenges. Throughout history, people have
found ways to work together, make compromises, and learn and share,
despite wars, injustices, and crises. In the years following World War II,
broad support for reconstruction efforts, a refined concept of human
development, and a belief in self-determination inspired the growth of
international development; what Harry Truman in his seminal 1949 address
called “a program of development based on the concept of democratic
fair dealing.” From these trends and movements Pact was born.
In 1971, a number of non-governmental organizations,
including some of the most well-known in the field, banded
together to form Private Agencies Collaborating Together
(PACT) with the express and stated purpose of “providing greater
resources, broader opportunities, and better means for enabling
people to meet their own needs through improved self-help
capabilities and to improve social and economic conditions.”
Today, the practice of capacity development is the basis of
some of the most significant accomplishments in our field.
Pact, as we are known today, has been an influential voice
in human development for 40 years.
F I N A N C I A L
P A RT N E R S
Statement
Audited Financial Statements
Assets	2010
Cash & Cash Equivalents	 23,239,962
Agency Transactions-Micro Finance	
Loans Receivable	 41,161,691
Advances and Grants Receivables 	 34,032,357
Other Assets 	 4,494,558
TOTAL ASSETS 	 102,928,568
Liabilities and Net Assets
Accounts Payable and Accruals	 7,625,789
Agency Transactions-Micro Finance	
Loans Receivable	 41,161,691
Refundable Advances	 50,204,109
Total Liabilities	98,991,589		
Unrestricted Net Assets	 3,936,979
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS	 102,928,568
Statement of Activities
Fiscal Year ending September 30, 2010
Support and Revenue 	 2010
Grants and Contracts	 203,906,743
Investment Income 	 151,818
Contributions 	 319,340
Other Revenue 	 327,958
TOTAL SUPPORT AND REVENUE 	 204,705,859
Expenses
Program Services 	 186,959,388
Management and General 	 17,155,956
Other Expenses 	 697,048
TOTAL EXPENSES	 204,812,392
PUBLIC
African Development Fund
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
British Embassy
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Danish Embassy
Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA)
Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Canada (DFAIT)
Department for International Development (DFID, UK)
Embassy of Finland
The European Commission
European Union
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria
Government of Southern Sudan
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark
National Committee for Sub-National Democratic Development Secretariat 	
(NCDDS)
Royal Danish Embassy
Royal Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA)
United Nations International Labour Organization (ILO)
United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS)
United Nations World Food Programme (WFP)
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
U.S. Department of Labor
U.S. Department of State
World Bank Group
PRIVATE and NON-PROFIT
AED
amfAR
AngloGold Ashanti, Ltd
Anvil Mining
ARK UK
The Asia Foundation
BMZ
Camfed International
Channel Research SPRL
Chevron Corporation
DAI
DanChurchAid
David and Lucile Packard Foundation
East-West Management Institute, Inc.
Family Health International
Fondation Ensemble
Ford Foundation
Futures Group International, LLC
Humanity United
The International Center for Research on Women (ICRW)
Institute for Global Environmental Strategies
International Tin Research Institute, Ltd
IUCN National Committee of the Netherlands
Johns Hopkins University
LIFT
Management Systems International
National Democratic Institute
Nike Foundation
Non-Timber Forest Exchange Programme
Oak Foundation
Open Society Forum
Oyu Tolgoi
Rio Tinto
The Rockefeller Foundation
RTI International
Synergy Global Consulting, Ltd
Tenke Fungurume Mining (TFM)
Unocal Myanmar Offshore Co., Ltd
Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program
Walmart
Wellspring Advisors, LLC
Wildlife Conservation Society
William J. Clinton Foundation
Winrock
World Wide Fund for Nature
World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
WWF Central Africa Regional Programme Office (CARPO)
Expenses
As of September 30, 2010
Program Portfolio Expenses by Region
YTD March 2011
Program Services
91.4%
$1,188,453; 1%
$9,392,480; 10%
$53, 841,421; 59%
$1,738,202; 2%
$25,334,343; 28%
Other Expenses
0.35%
Management
and General
8.55%
Asia & Eurasia
Southern Africa
East & west Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Global Projects
Pact
1828 L Street, NW
Suite 300
Washington, DC 20036 USA
Tel: 202 466 5666
Fax: 202 466 5665
Email: info@pactworld.org
www.pactworld.org
