this is what
looks like…
sought. made. kept. shared.
a promise
ANNUAL REPORT2014
our vision… our word…
our vision is a world where
those who are poor and
marginalized exercise their voice,
discover and build their own
solutions and take ownership of
their future.
At Pact, our promise is to measurably transform people’s lives
for the better. In nearly 30 countries, more than 3,000 Pact staff
work side by side with poor and marginalized communities to
help them discover and implement their own solutions.
Because how we keep our promise matters. Development
programs imposed on communities simply cannot accomplish
meaningful,lastingchange.Local,integratedsolutionsdesigned
in partership with the people we serve are Pact’s hallmark.
They’re the reason we were able to make significant strides in
thepastyeartowardachievingaworldwhereallpeopleexercise
their voice and own their future.
In 2014, Pact and its partners helped:
More than 2.4 million people gain better access
to health and social services.
A total of 547,487 people with limited livelihood
choices to increase their net income and
savings — the vast majority of them women.
Nearly 120,000 people to benefit from better
natural resource management, improving more
than 1.5 million hectares of ecosystem.
Around the world, Pact is building local promise.
This is what that promise looks like.
Nancy Murphy
2014 Board Chair
Mark Viso
CEO + President
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 3
sought
made
kept
shared
promises…
supporting goverment-citizen interaction
Pact’s governance programs prove citizen participation,
knowledge exchange and advocacy are powerful tools
for positive changing institutions. We have worked with
stakeholderstoshiftpoliciesonissuessuchasanti-corruption
and public information and have empowered civil society
organizationstohavegreaterinfluenceonlegislation.
Setting the stage for reforms
The importance of Pact’s governance work in Ukraine
took center stage on Nov. 21, 2013. With funding from
the U.S. Agency for International Development, Pact
launched the UNITER project in 2008 to strengthen
pro-reform Ukrainian civil society organizations
pushing for democratic gains. Improving the capacity
of local organizations is a Pact signature. The capacity
development model we use around the world begins with
a thorough assessment of an organization’s abilities. Pact
then provides what’s needed to improve deficiencies –
combining technical training, funding for additional staff
and operations, and hands-on guidance on developing
and implementing programs. In Ukraine, Pact provided
vital mentorship to organizations fighting government
corruption and promoting democracy, transparency,
EuropeanintegrationandtheideathatordinaryUkrainians
could create the change they desired. On Nov. 21, 2013,
Pact was hosting a conference in Kiev with local partner
organizationswhennewsbrokethatUkraine’sgovernment
had decreed it would not pursue a key agreement with
the European Union. Within hours, thousands of people
were in Kiev’s central square, demonstrating in the rain.
Organizations that Pact mentored helped set the stage
for what happened that day, and they played a critical part
in achieving the reforms that followed. Several Ukrainians
who held roles in those organizations are now members of
thenewparliament.Today,Pact’slocalpartnersremainkey
players in reform efforts.
ukraine
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 5
Building peace and justice amid civil war
Like nearly everything in the world’s newest country, Pact’s work in South Sudan changed
dramatically when civil war broke out in late 2013. The violence is estimated to have killed tens of
thousands of South Sudanese and displaced roughly 2 million. Pact’s peace-building work and our
Access to Justice program, which is establishing the rule of law and stability, have only become
morecritical.Inresponsetothecrisis,Pactopeneditsfirstlegalaidclinicinsideacivilianprotection
camp, where residents can obtain free legal assistance, help mediating disagreements and other
vital services. Through education campaigns and legal aid clinics, Pact is protecting the rights of
women and children and promoting the peaceful resolution of disputes. We’re bringing together
members ofopposingethnicgroupsandassistingpeopledisplacedbytheviolence.
sought
promises…
In Nigeria, Pact’s PROMOT program is helping to
prevent mother-to-child HIV transmissions. Two
years after its launch, PROMOT has tested more
than 45,000 pregnant women for HIVand reached
more than 180,000 people with HIV prevention
messages.
south sudan
nigeria
Building peace
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 7
made
kept
shared
sought
promises…
local solutions
Pact’spromisesarefulfilledinpartnershipwithlocal
communities. Our integrated approach to building
the capacity of local organizations, developing
good governance and cultivating markets is carried
out by individuals who adapt our expertise to their
ownenvironmentsandchallenges.
In partnership, Pact’s promises become promises
kept.
Empowering women to own their future
Incountriesaroundtheworld,fromMyanmartoTanzania,PactcontinuestoempowerwomenusingWORTH,
our signature, award-winning savings group model. By combining literacy training, community banking and
microbusiness development support,WORTH enables women to become entrepreneurs, family providers,
socialactivistsandleadersintheircommunities.In2014,nearly550,000peopleincreasedtheirnetincome
and savings because of Pact’s work – the vast majority of them women. WORTH groups launched years
ago that now receive no outside support continue to thrive. In Ingel, a village in central Myanmar, WORTH
members are paying their success forward.Two years after Pact launched savings groups there, members
startedtheirowncharity.Theyrecentlypurchasedanambulance,whichthey’reusingtoprovidefreeservice
topeopleinneedinIngelandnearbyvillages.Besidesfundingtheambulanceanditsmaintenance,WORTH
membersaredonatingtheirtimeasattendantswhocareforpatientsduringtransport.
around the world
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 9
made
promises…
New partnership to advocate integrated approach
In May 2014, Pact launched Locus, a landmark initiative dedicated to a more sustainable,
equitable and richer development model. Along with our Locus partners – Africa Capacity
Alliance, Aga Khan Foundation USA, FHI 360, IRC and SNV USA – we are focused on
a common goal: eliminating extreme poverty. But how we achieve our results is just
as important as the results themselves. We believe in genuine partnerships across
geographies and sectors; a shared framework for measurement and open data; local
solutions and local ownership as both the means and the end; and an integrated approach
rather than various siloed projects. Through shared research and learning, we hope to
discover the most effective means to support the people we serve and change the way
funders think about development outcomes. This is the promise we’ve made to poor and
marginalizedpeoplearoundtheworldwhoseekabettertomorrow.
Fighting child labor
InApril2014,Pactlaunchedanewinitiativetoreducechildlabor
in Colombia’s mines. With funding from the U.S. Department
of Labor, the Somos Tesoro project – “We are Treasure” in
Spanish – is benefitting children and families in coal and gold
mining communities in the country’s Boyacá and Antioquia
regions.Miningisdangerous,backbreakingworkthatprevents
children from going to school, making it more likely that their
own kids will end up in mines. By first examining why children
take part in mining, Pact is addressing the problem’s root
causes, including economic instability, limited educational
opportunities and weak child protection policies. With the
Colombiangovernmentandlocalpartnerorganizations,Pactis
improving schools and promoting attendance, giving families
new livelihood options, strengthening laws, formalizing the
small-scale mining sector and bringing health and safety
standards to mines. In addition to helping thousands of
children, SomosTesoro is benefitting Colombia’s adult miners,
teachers, educational institutions and local governments and
economies. Pact is also working to reduce child labor in tin
minesintheDemocraticRepublicofCongo.
New hope in Mekong
This year Pact expanded its Mekong Vitality project in
Vietnam, which is building the livelihoods of thousands
of women. Launched with support from the Coca-Cola
Foundation,thisyearthepartnershipgrewtoincludetheU.S.
AgencyforInternationalDevelopment.Withthismixofpublic
and private funding, Pact is incorporating mobile technology
andadvancedbusinesstrainingintoMekongVitality.
colombia
vietnam
international development
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 11
kept
shared
sought
made
promises…
Making strides for artisanal miners
In Africa’s Great Lakes region, Pact continues to work with governments and industry to assure tin, tantalum and tungsten – the
3Ts – as conflict-free. The 3Ts traceability and due diligence system that Pact implements, known as iTSCi, remains the only
one in the region that meets international standards. In 2014, we helped expand the system to hundreds of new mines, including
many that were once thought too remote or too insecure to be reached. By the end of the fiscal year, the iTSCi system had been
implemented at more than 1,000 mine sites in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, safeguarding the livelihood
of tens of thousands of artisanal miners. In addition to our traceability work, we’re making health, safety, education and human
rights improvements in artisanal and small-scale mining communities around the world. In rural Ethiopia, we’re reducing poverty,
increasing economic opportunities for women and supporting environmental rehabilitation of mines. In Madagascar, we’re
providingscholarshipsandeducationprogramstoboostschoolretentionratesandempowerchildren.AcrossAfrica,we’rehelping
governmentsdevelopnational strategiesforartisanal miningandimprovetransparencyandhumanrightsprotections.
integrated approach
One of Pact’s three core values is partnership. Partnership
deepensPact’simpactandpromotesempowerment.AtPact,
partnership flourishes at many levels but most importantly
at the local level. Significant improvement in peoples’ lives
can occur only with the help of those who live beside them,
and lasting results call for local partners who know their
communities’ challenges, are personally invested in their
solutionsandaretrustedbythosetheyassist.
africa’s great lakes region
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 13
kept
promises…
In Tanzania, Pact’s Pamoja Tuwalee program is improving the lives of the
country’s most vulnerable children. Using an integrated approach, we’ve
reached more than 100,000 children with key health, nutrition, education
andprotectionservices,andwe’rebuildingthecapacityoflocalauthorities,
families andcommunityorganizationstomeetchildren’sneeds.
Changing the way the sector
evaluates local partners
A provenleaderincapacitydevelopment,Pactstrengthens
local organizationsaroundtheworld–fromgovernment
agenciestononprofitsthatareimprovinghealth,promoting
democracyandprotectingchildren.Drawingonthis
expertise,Pactin2014launchedtheCapacitySolutions
Platform,aninnovativeonlinetool thatallowsdevelopment,
governmentandcommunityorganizationstotrackand
measurecapacitydevelopmentresults.Originallydeveloped
asaninstrumentforglobal capacitydevelopmentwithin
Pact,theCSP –now availabletoeveryone–ischanging
thewaythesectorevaluatesprogressinstrengthening
local partnerorganizations.Besidesreliablyandquickly
processingCloud-storeddatatoinformprogramming
decisions,theCSP ispromotingsharedmeasurement
andanalysismethodsandgreaterdatasharingamong
organizations.MeasurementtoolsavailablethroughtheCSP
includePact’ssignatureOrganizational PerformanceIndex,
Organizational CapacityAssessmentandOrganizational
NetworkAnalysis.TheCSP isaccessiblefromanydevicein
English,Russian,UkrainianandFrench.
2,476,056
713,698
13
574
547,487
547,487
547,119,525
measuring pact’s mission
2014
713,698
pactworld.org/our-results
promises kept
measuring our mission
It’s not enough to transform lives for the better. Pact seeks to make
them measurably better. To measure our progress, we compile data
at the local and national levels that summarize the outcomes of our
worldwideprogramming.
Every year, Pact publishes Measuring Pact’s Mission, reporting on
eachofPact’simpactareasandapproaches,globally andnationally.
Serving most vulnerable children
worldwide
tanzania
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 15
shared
sought
made
kept
promises…
‘there’s power in
a single promise...
Transformation
in millions of
them.’
Pact continues to diversify our funding sources.This year we
forged new partnerships with corporations, foundations and
individuals. Our Building Local Promise Fund is growing,
thanks in part to the launch of Pact’s new digital PromiseWall.
what does your
#pactpromise
look like?
Visit pactworld.org/promisewall
to make your promise.
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 17
Support and Revenue	 2014
Grants and contracts 	 $ 129,310,468
Contributions 	 $344,483
Microfinance loan activities 	 $27,479,728
Fee income on microfinance loans 	 $123,085
Investment income, net 	 $199,628
Other revenue 	 $47,572
Net Loss on Loans	 ($584,263)
AssetTransfer from Donor Ended Projects	 $68,478,223
	 Total Support and Revenue	 $225,398,924
		
Expenses	
Program services 	 $ 127,859,303
Management and general 	 $18,326,442
Unrestricted general expenses 	 $1,210,231
Fundraising 	 $220,646
	 Total Expenses	 $147,616,622
Change in net assets 	 $77,782,302
Net assets:
Beginning 	 $11,776,470
Ending 	 $89,558,772
Statement of Financial Position
as of September 30, 2014
Statement of Activities	
for the year ending September 30, 2014
consolidated statement of activities partners board of directors
leadership
supporters
Assets	2014
Cash And Cash Equivalents 	 $ 38,604,729
Investments 	 $3 ,336,554
Federal Grants Receivable 	 $3,490,873
Other Grants Receivable 	 $2,148,463
Advances And Other Receivables 	 $3,610,534
Prepaid Expenses And Deposits 	 $2,011,698
Loan Portfolio, Net Of Loan Loss Reserve 	 $111,938,262
Due From Related Party	 $1,822
Property And Equipment, net 	 $4,906,573
	
	 Total Assets 	 $170,049,508	
Liabilities and Net Assets	
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 	 $ 7 ,854,549
Beneficiary savings and reserved funds 	 $36,964,487
Net returns on loans, reinvested earnings 	 $771,086
Refundable advances – federal 	 $5,767,059
Refundable advances – other 	 $14,566,654
Client Loan Funds	 $12,931,615
Deferred Rent	 $1,635,286
	 Total Liabilities	 $80,490,736
Unrestricted – Pact, Inc. 	 $5 ,740,731
Unrestricted – Pact Institute, Inc. 	 $2,760,096
Unrestricted – Pact Global Microfinance Fund 	 $81,057,945	
Total Net Assets	 $89,558,772
	 Total Liabilities and Net Assets	 $1 70,049,508
The financial records of Pact, Inc. and affiliates are audited annually by an independent firm of certified public
accountants.The financial records for 2014 were audited by McGladrey, LLP.
Audit reports are available at Pact, Inc..
Hand in hand with partners, Pact tackles poverty through a unique
brand of international development—one that approaches poverty
from all angles. The intrinsic value of Pact’s approach is the ability to
work across technical areas to design holistic programs that squarely
address multiple, interwoven factors associated with poverty and
marginalization. For people to truly lift themselves out of poverty, they
need to earn a decent living, be healthy and take part in the benefits
that nature provides. This integrated approach is customized in every
communityinwhichPactworks.InthePactmodel,communitiessettheir
own priorities, devise the best solution to their challenges with Pact’s
guidance and assistance, and enjoy a brighter tomorrow as a result of
theirownaccomplishment.
Australian Agency for International
Development
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Carnegie Corporation
Chevron Corporation
Coca-Cola Foundation
Danish International Development Agency
Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Embassy of Finland
European Commission
European Union
General Electric Foundation
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria
Hilton Foundation
Humanity United
IMAWorld Health
International Organization of Migration
ITRI
MasterCard Foundation
MSI
Oak Foundation
Omidyar Foundation
OyuTolgoi
QITMadagascar Minerals
Results for Development Institute
Rockefeller Foundation
Royal Norwegian Ministry of Foreign
Affairs
South Africa Limited
Swedish International Development
Cooperation Agency
UK Department for International
Development
United Nations Children’s Fund
United Nations Development Program
U.N. Organization for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs
U.S. Agency for International Development
U.S. Department of Labor
U.S. Department of State
Wellspring Advisors LLC
TheWorld Bank
james bernard
microsoft
samantha carey
ctpartners
mark fitzgerald
kpmg
ana rita gonzalez
policy wisdom
john grimes
mission+strategic
solutions
john kohler
santa clara center for
science, technology and
society
bernhard liese
georgetown university
mark minelli
minelli, inc.
kevin mitchell
breitburn energy
nancy murphy
board chair
csr communications
tamela noboa
discovery communications
stephen oleskey
hiscock and barclay llp
pamela roussos
santa clara center for
science, technology and
society
jennifer silberman
hilton worldwide
frank sims
cargill
david skaggs
mckenna, long & aldridge
llp
david wilson
thompson hine llp
mark viso
president and ceo
william warshauer
chief operating officer
leonard n. williams
chief financial officer and
executive vice president of
finance
shari stier
vice president
global human resources
john whalen
president, pact institute and
senior vice president of
knowledge management
graham wood
vice president
program advancement
jeannie zielinski
vice president
southern africa and south
sudan
suzanne rexing
vice president
opportunity development
& communications
katie schwarm
vice president
east and west africa
kurt macleod
vice president
asia and eurasia
PACT2014 ANNUAL REPORT 19
pactworld.org
