2011
A national challenge
Celebrating 40 Years of UNCF's "A Mind Is a Terrible Thing to Waste"(R)
A national commitment
40 years of putting minds to work.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 5
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Letter from the Chair. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Letter from the President and CEO. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7
To and Through College: A National Commitment . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8
UNCF: Empowering Unrestricted Potential .
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
Students and the Nation Need More; UNCF is Doing More . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
UNCF and Merck: Supporting the Next Generation of American Scientists . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15
UNCF'S Gates Millennium Scholars Program: A Model of Success
for Thousands of Students--and the Nation . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Students and Families Deserve a College Education
They Can Afford: UNCF Has Answers .
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19
To Serve a Nation: National Recognition for the Tradition of Service at HBCUs . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20
Leading the Way to Environmental Sustainability:
Building Green at Minority-Serving Institutions . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 23
UNCF An Evening of Stars(R)
: Music with a Mission . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24
Emergency Aid for the Next Generation of Leaders . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27
The UNCF HBCU Empower Me Tour: Tapping into the Power of Education. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Major Donors. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Officers and Directors. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
Office Locations. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 42
Member Institutions. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44
Financial Statements. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Dear friends of UNCF,
Although this is the first time I am addressing you as chairman
of the UNCF Board of Directors, I have been a member of the
board for 15 years. Over those years, I have seen UNCF grow in
exciting ways. Today we award more than 10,000 scholarships
each year--more than five times as many as when I joined the
board--with a total value of over $90 million, a 16-fold increase.
Our Gates Millennium Scholars Program has graduation rates
of 80-90 percent, much higher than the national graduation rate.
The range of our support has increased as well. The UNCF/Merck
Science Initiative, for example, has advanced the research and
careers of more than 500 African Americans in biological science
and engineering, and the UNCF Institute for Capacity Building, has
helped UNCF-member institutions become stronger and more
self-sustaining through technical assistance and implementation
support in areas such as faculty and curriculum development,
fund-raising and environmental sustainability.
One of the most important growth areas for UNCF has been the
expansion of its role as a national advocate for educating students of
color, from pre-school to and all the way through college. To reach
President Obama's goal of regaining world leadership in college
education, the country will need to increase the number of students
graduating from high school prepared for college coursework and
college success. UNCF has been an active and effective presence
in the media and in the policy-making and legislative communities,
making the case for education for all Americans.
There couldn't be a better time for UNCF's emergence as both the
nation's premiere source of financial, social and academic support
for students of color and as one of its foremost influencers of
education policy. The country's need for a better-educated workforce
and the high priority the Obama administration has accorded
to education make this a time of unprecedented opportunity for
UNCF and the students and colleges that depend on us.
UNCF is poised to build on its record of success and take
advantage of these opportunities for the benefit of our students
and our member colleges and universities. How far our reach can
extend--how many students we can help receive their college
degrees, how many cutting-edge programs we can launch and
sustain, how many campuses we can help reach environmental
sustainability--will depend on your support. I hope we can count
on you during this year as we have in the past.
Sincerely,
William F. Stasior
Chair
A letter from the Chair
6 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
A letter from the PRESIDENT AND CEO
Dear friends,
There's a revolution starting in American education and UNCF is
leading the way. Or maybe it would be more accurate to say that
American public policy is starting to catch up with what UNCF has
been saying--and doing--for almost 70 years.
From its founding, UNCF has been making the case that every
American needs and deserves a college education. That idea was
not universally accepted when we started reaching out to the
country through our motto, "A mind is a terrible thing to waste,"(R)
and the Ad Council-sponsored public service announcement
campaign that made those words almost universally recognized.
Today, UNCF's longtime mission has become national education
policy. President Barack Obama has called education the economic
issue of our time and pledged the country to regain world
leadership in college graduates. U.S. Secretary of Education Arne
Duncan has declared that "HBCUs will--and absolutely must--
play a critical leadership role in meeting this challenge." And
today everyone recognizes that before they can get a good college
education, students need to get a good pre-college education.
Now comes the hard part. Just as UNCF has delivered over
the years on the promise inherent in "A mind is a terrible thing
to waste,"(R)
it must lead the country in delivering against the
President's pledge to regain world leadership and UNCF's own
commitment: to double the number of students graduating from
UNCF-member colleges and universities by 2020.
These are ambitious--even audacious--goals. But I believe that
we have no choice but to pursue them and meet them. We owe it
to our students, our community, our economy and our country.
Many of you have invested in our next generation by investing in
UNCF and your names are listed in our "honor roll" of funders
in this report. Please accept our gratitude and, more important,
the gratitude of the students whose education you have made
possible. Each year they depend on UNCF for help in getting a
college education. And UNCF depends on you.
Sincerely,
Michael L. Lomax, Ph.D.
President and CEO
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 7
Whether the subject is education, the economy or the role of Americans of
color, our country stands at an intersection--an intersection from which all
roads lead to UNCF.
In the national media, and in city after city across the country, education
is in the headlines. Even in the contentious Washington environment,
bipartisan support has led to significant increases in federal aid to college
students and school systems. A former Colorado school superintendent sits
in the U.S. Senate. Education reform has been the signature initiative in the
administration of New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. The Washington,
DC mayoral election revolved around reforming that city's public schools.
Editorials and op-ed articles herald breakthroughs in public and public
charter schools.
There's a good reason that education has moved near the top of the
national agenda. America faces many economic challenges, and education
addresses all of them. The next generation of doctors, nurses and other
medical professionals we will all need are grade-school students today.
We need them to get a strong education before college so they can succeed
in college once they get there. The scientists and engineers who will
develop sustainable solutions to our energy needs will need a rigorous
academic education that begins on the first day of pre-school and doesn't
end until graduation from undergraduate, graduate or professional school.
And the future teachers who will educate our children and grandchildren
must have deep knowledge about the subjects they will teach and the best
way to teach them.
Demographic trends tell us that a lot of those future health care
professionals, scientists, engineers and teachers will be people of color.
The U.S. is well on its way to becoming a country in which people of
color--African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, Native
Americans and others--will outnumber what is now the majority population.
Many will come from low-income families and will need help paying for
college or will not have received the pre-college education they need in
order to succeed at college. So ability and experience in giving low- and
moderate-income students of color a good education will be at a premium.
This is UNCF's moment. No national organization can match UNCF's record
of preparing young people of color for careers of success and service.
More than 350,000 students have received bachelor's degrees from UNCF-
member historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs). No scholarship
program of its size can match the 80-90 percent graduation rates of the low-
income minority recipients in UNCF's Gates Millennium Scholars Program.
The pioneering UNCF/Merck Science Initiative has produced more than 500
researchers and professors in the biological sciences. And when the National
Science Foundation ranked colleges--all colleges--based on the number of
African American alumni who went on to get doctoral degrees in science and
engineering, HBCUs took the top eight places, ahead of elite private colleges
and flagship state universities.
Now, more than ever before, the nation needs precisely the capabilities in
which UNCF excels. And more than ever before, UNCF-member institutions,
scholarships and other programs are aligned with the nation's needs. Read
the rest of the stories in this report, and see for yourself.
TO AND THROUGH COLLEGE: A NATIONAL COMMITMENT
8 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 9
10 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
A teacher in Chicago who was able to get her college degree and teaching
certificate thanks to a last-dollar scholarship from the HBCU she graduated
from. An Atlanta businesswoman who studied business and economics
in her HBCU's business administration program. An aspiring scientist in
New Jersey who got her first taste of a career in science through a federal
program awarded to the college she attended.
What do they all have in common? They all got where they are today thanks
to a unique UNCF fund, made up of unrestricted donations--contributions
not tied to a particular program, so that member college leaders can focus
on their campus's highest priorities.
Who are the generous benefactors whose unrestricted support enables
the efforts of each of these 39 colleges to fulfill their unique mission and
tradition? They are the companies and individuals who buy tickets and
tables at events like the Maya Angelou Women Who Lead luncheon in
Charlotte, the black-tie Mayor's Masked Ball in Atlanta and UNCF's annual
anniversary dinner in New York. They are the people who support UNCF
students while they get physically fit at a "UNCF Walk for Education" in Los
Angeles, Houston or Milwaukee. They are the hundreds of thousands who
contribute in response to letters from UNCF. And they are the men and
women who remember UNCF's students in their wills.
It may be a $50 on-line gift, $100 for a good time outdoors at a walk, a $500
dinner ticket or a sizable bequest. It all adds up--to millions of dollars each
year, which is set aside in a special fund and then distributed to UNCF-
member colleges and universities based on an agreed-upon formula.
Some schools use their share of the unrestricted fund to support last-dollar
scholarships that can make the difference between staying in college and
dropping out. Others invest in innovative academic programs that prepare
their students for cutting-edge careers after graduation. And still other
UNCF-member institutions leverage their share by using it to raise money
for ambitious initiatives funded by corporations, foundations or the federal
or state government.
It's in the best tradition of historically black colleges and universities that
share a common destination--educating young people--but follow unique
paths to get there.
The ways they find to help their students and the kinds of programs and
initiatives they create: unrestricted. The amount of good they can do: also
unrestricted.
The satisfaction that tens of thousands of UNCF supporters get from
knowing they helped send a student to college? That's unrestricted too.
UNCF: EMPOWERING UNRESTRICTED POTENTIAL
Unrestricted donations to UNCF
support the college education of
55,000 students every year.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 11
The growth and accomplishments of UNCF are historically unprecedented:
10,000 scholarships awarded each year, including a program with an 80-90
percent graduation rate. More than 350,000 graduates of UNCF-member
schools. The UNCF Institute for Capacity Building--a unique institutional
self-improvement initiative dedicated to making UNCF member institutions
better and stronger.
But students need more. Each year, tens of thousands of promising
students are forced to delay--or cancel--college plans because the schools
they attended from pre-school through high school didn't prepare them for
college-level coursework. Or because scholarship funds have run out. Or
because no one told them that preparing for college has to start, not during
junior or senior year of high school, but years before, in middle or even
elementary school.
The nation needs more as well: more teachers, scientists, engineers and
doctors--in other words, more college graduates. President Obama has
called for the U.S. to send more students to college and to make sure they
graduate. He has committed the country to regaining world leadership in
the percentage of students with college degrees.
To serve students and to serve the nation, UNCF is committed to do
more. In fact, it has committed to build on its record and reputation, to go
beyond today's programs and initiatives to double the numbers of students
graduating from its member institutions within the decade.
Take UNCF's renowned scholarship program, the Gates Millennium
Scholars Program, whose recipients, all low-income students of color, have
compiled average graduation rates of 80-90 percent.
How do you follow a success like that? By building on it--with the
Partnership for College Completion, a joint effort of the KIPP network of
charter schools, which gets students on the college track and helps them
stay there; the Corporation for Enterprise Development (CFED), which will
help the KIPP students, most of whom come from low- and moderate-
income families, save for college; and UNCF, which will provide financial,
academic and social support when PCC students are ready. Already, PCC
has moved from concept to reality, thanks to a $7.5 million grant from Citi
and the Citi Foundation.
UNCF is also reaching beyond the boundaries of its programs and
campuses to answer the president's challenge and double the numbers,
taking its case for more--and better--education public. UNCF was in
the forefront, for example, of the broad-based coalition that persuaded
Congress to increase Pell Grants, the most important federal program
for low-income students, an increase that will mean $35 million to
UNCF students alone, and many times that to low-income students at
other colleges.
STUDENTS AND THE NATION NEED MORE
UNCF is Doing More
12 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
UNCF knows that for students to succeed in college, they need an improved
education before they go to college. We also know that schools improve
only when parents and communities demand improvement. So UNCF has
joined with committed partners to help parents in communities around the
country make their voices heard. UNCF President Dr. Michael Lomax joined
with Joel Klein, chancellor of the New York City public school system, and
Janet Murguia, president and CEO of the National Council of La Raza, a
nationwide advocate for Hispanic Americans, as co-chairs of the Education
Equality Project (EEP), a national education advocacy organization whose
views have been published in national media like the New York Times and
Wall Street Journal.
And when MacNeil/Lehrer Productions, producer of the "PBS NewsHour,"
held a nationally-televised debate on whether our economy needs more
college graduates, it chose Dr. Lomax to join former U.S. Secretary of
Education Margaret Spellings in making the case.
The country needs more college graduates, and especially more college
graduates of color. And that means that today, more than ever, the country
needs UNCF.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 13
14 | U NCF : A N ATION A L CH A LLENGE
Americans and people around the world are living better and longer lives,
and much of the credit goes to revolutionary "miracle drugs" and the
research discoveries that led to them. But there are many illnesses and
conditions yet to conquer, including Alzheimer's disease, AIDS and cancer.
And UNCF is playing an important role in bringing cures for these and
other diseases closer to reality through a ground-breaking partnership with
Merck, the global pharmaceutical and research firm.
The partnership, the UNCF/Merck Science Initiative (UMSI), supports the
development of the next generation of researchers in the biological sciences
and engineering by giving promising African American scientists support
for their studies and research projects at the undergraduate, graduate and
post-doctoral levels. Since UMSI was founded 15 years ago, more than
500 promising scientists have moved through the program and gone on to
advanced degrees and careers as academic or pharmaceutical industry
researchers and as college professors. UMSI alumni include:
*Dr. Donnie Eddins, an alumnus of UNCF-member institution Talladega
College, one of only two scholars to receive Merck fellowships at all three
levels. Now a research scientist at Merck, Dr. Eddins' work focuses on how
to improve the mental functions of patients with dementia and Alzheimer's
disease. In 2010, Dr. Eddins received UNCF's "Ones to Watch" award, given
to alumni of UNCF colleges who have impressive records of achievement
early in their careers; he was introduced at the awards ceremony by
Shekeila Baccus, a student at UNCF-member institution Morris College
and a new Merck undergraduate fellow whom Dr. Eddins is mentoring.
*Dr. Danielle Gray-Singh, who has received two UMSI fellowships, graduated
from one UNCF-member institution and is now giving back as a leader at
another. Dr. Gray-Singh graduated from UNCF-member institution Xavier
University in New Orleans. She received her first UMSI fellowship to support
her research for her Ph.D. dissertation at Tulane University and her second
for post-doctoral work at Baylor College of Medicine. She has taught at
Emory University, where she was instrumental in setting up their post-
baccalaureate program, and at Princeton, where she was assistant dean of
academic affairs and diversity. She is now chair of the biology department
at UNCF-member institution Tuskegee University.
*Dr. Milton Brown, an alumnus of the University of Alabama-Birmingham,
and the holder of both Ph.D. and M.D. degrees, established Georgetown
University Medical Center's Drug Discovery Program, whose mission is to
develop lifesaving diagnostics and therapeutics through drug discovery
and development.
But the impact of the UNCF/Merck program doesn't stop there. UMSI alumni
have formed the Association of UNCF/Merck Fellows (AUMF). Through AUMF,
they provide scientific and mentoring support for current UMSI fellows and for
high school and college students, encouraging their scientific ambitions and
aspirations and multiplying the impact of the UNCF/Merck Science Initiative
far beyond even the large circle of UMSI alumni.
UNCF AND MERCK
Supporting The Next Generation of American Scientists
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 15
The atmosphere was tense last spring in the auditorium of Washington,
DC's Benjamin Banneker High School, where an assembly of students
waited to find out which of them had been chosen to receive good-through-
graduation scholarships from UNCF's Gates Millennium Scholars Program.
Their eagerness was understandable. Recipients of Gates Millennium
Scholarships know that in addition to the scholarship checks they will
receive from UNCF, they will get academic support, mentoring and
leadership training through college graduation and, in some cases,
graduate or professional education. It's a formula for success: The
14,000 low-income students of color who have received Gates Millennium
Scholarships in the program's first decade have an average graduation
rate of 80-90 percent, almost double the overall college graduation rates of
students across the entire U.S. and comparable to the graduation rates of
students from higher-income families.
The Gates Millennium Scholars formula--the idea that a scholarship has
to be more than a check--and its record of success have attracted the
attention of philanthropists and Washington policy makers alike. Like the
rest of the country, they're looking for a model that will produce the millions
of additional college graduates the country needs, many of whom will
need to come from among young Americans of color, as a model for how
the country can meet President's Obama's commitment to regain world
leadership in college education.
The scene at Washington's Banneker High was played out in hundreds of
other high schools and homes around the country, where high-achieving
students waited to see if they would be among the 1,000 new Gates
Millennium Scholars. Finally the envelopes were opened, the names were
announced, and happy students received their award packages while proud
parents and teachers beamed and classmates applauded. They were close
to the end of their high school careers and on the brink of a lifetime of
learning, leadership and service.
UNCF'S GATES MILLENNIUM SCHOLARS PROGRAM
A Model of Success for Thousands of Students--and the Nation
National college graduation rate: 55%
Gates Millennium
Scholars college
graduation rate: 79.9%
16 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
U NCF : A N ATION A L CO M M IT M ENT | 17
18 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
A new study by UNCF's Frederick D. Patterson Research Institute carries an
encouraging message for families pinched by recession-limited resources
and increasing tuition: UNCF-member colleges and universities are more
than 30 percent less expensive than comparable institutions.
At a time when a college education is more important than ever, the cost
of getting a college education--tuition and fees, books, dormitory rooms,
meals and activity fees--keeps getting higher. But government statistics
show that family income levels are flat. As the recession lingers, some
families struggle to make ends meet on lower salaries and wages.
It's a problem--and not just for students and their families. The country
needs to educate the next generation of teachers, scientists, engineers and
entrepreneurs, just four of the fast-growing careers that require at least an
undergraduate degree.
Families and the country need a college education they can afford. And
UNCF has a solution. A new study by UNCF's Frederick D. Patterson
Research Institute found that average tuition at the 39 historically black
colleges and universities that are members of UNCF averages 31 percent
less than tuitions at comparable institutions. Nine UNCF-member
institutions did not raise their tuition and fees at all during the two-year
period of the study, while one UNCF-member institution actually reduced
its tuition and fees. All comparable non-UNCF institutions in the survey
increased tuition and fees by an average of $1,700 over the same period.
The Patterson Institute, named for UNCF's founder, was re-launched this
year. Its mandate: to conduct the rigorous research that UNCF and its
member colleges need to pinpoint the needs of colleges and students,
the demands of the economy and the job marketplace and to find which
academic programs are working and which are not.
The Frederick D. Patterson Research Institute is part of UNCF's
commitment to helping students get the education they need and that the
nation needs them to have; and its commitment to be the kind of data-
driven, outcomes-oriented, best-practices organization that our students,
their families and the country deserve.
For a free copy of Affordability of UNCF-Member
Institutions, e-mail affordability@uncf.org
Students and Families Deserve a College
Education They Can Afford
UNCF Has Answers
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 19
From Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., to Brown University President Ruth
Simmons to U.S. Surgeon General Regina Benjamin--all graduates of
UNCF-member institutions--the importance of service has always been a
critical part of what HBCUs have taught their students.
Service has also been a key theme in the short videos on UNCF activities that
punctuate UNCF An Evening of Stars(R)
. Viewers of last year's tribute to Lionel
Richie saw students at Spelman College cooperate with team members from
presenting sponsor Target to work with youngsters at Spelman's on-campus
child care center, part of the college's laboratory school. And during the
previous year's UNCF An Evening of Stars(R)
Tribute to Patti LaBelle, viewers
watched as Target President of Community Relations Laysha Ward and a
team of Target associates worked alongside students at UNCF-member
school Huston-Tillotson University to repair damage to the campus's trees
and shrubbery inflicted by hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
Now, the commitment to service that has always been a hallmark of UNCF-
member institutions has received national recognition. The Washington
Monthly's prestigious ranking of liberal arts colleges has given high
marks to many UNCF schools. Unlike other rankings which are based
on a measures like selectivity, per-student spending and the opinions of
academic peers, the Washington Monthly survey evaluates colleges based
on three factors: social mobility (recruiting and graduating low-income
students); research (producing cutting-edge scholarship and Ph.D.s); and
service (encouraging students to give something back to their country).
The magazine placed 12 UNCF schools in the top half of its 2009 rankings.
Morehouse College was ranked 14th
, ahead of Oberlin College. Spelman
finished 21st
, just ahead of Bowdoin and Vassar. Fisk University was ranked
32nd
, Dillard University 40th
, Tougaloo College 42nd
and Talladega College
and Rust College 52nd
and 57th
, respectively. UNCF institutions Johnson C.
Smith University, Lane College, Paine College, Bennett College for Women
and Jarvis Christian College were also ranked in the top half of the nation's
liberal arts colleges.
More than 150 years after the first HBCU was founded, the commitment
of HBCUs to attracting and graduating students and preparing them for
careers not only of success but service lives on. And in the Washington
Monthly rankings, that tradition is getting the recognition it deserves.
TO SERVE A NATION
National Recognition for the Tradition of Service at HBCUs
12
UNCF colleges and universities
placed in the top half of Washington
Monthly's college ranking.
20 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 21
22 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Historically black colleges and universities know all about doing more with
less. Any institutions committed to educating students from low-income
families know how to provide a quality education while getting the most
out of scarce resources. UNCF is building on that foundation of experience
to help its member colleges and universities make environmental
sustainability a reality on their campuses through the UNCF Building Green
at Minority Serving Institutions program. Thanks to support from the Kresge
Foundation, UNCF is leading the way.
The green building initiative is a project of UNCF's Institute for Capacity
Building, the unique 10-year, $120 million institutional self-improvement
program that helps HBCUs become academically and financially stronger
and more self-sustaining. An array of like-minded organizations including
Second Nature, the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, the Hispanic
Association of Colleges and Universities and the American Indian Higher
Education Consortium are partnering with UNCF to make the green building
initiative a success.
In its first year, UNCF's Building Green Initiative has brought together more
than 350 representatives of HBCUs and other minority-serving institutions
with leading experts in college campus environmental sustainability to
learning institutes in Atlanta, Minneapolis and San Antonio where they traded
experiences and lessons-learned. The program also developed the first
MSI campus-wide sustainability survey and established an intensive green
facilities training series. The program will award 10 campus climate action
planning mini-grants to black, tribal and Hispanic-serving institutions blazing
new trails in college-campus sustainability.
The green building initiative concluded its first year to enthusiastic reviews.
Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum, president of UNCF-member institution Spelman
College, credited the green building initiative with inspiring the Sustainable
Spelman program. And Howard University, a program participant, credited
UNCF's Building Green Initiative with "providing a great service by uniting
historically black colleges and universities and other minority-serving
institutions on this issue."
LEADING THE WAY TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Building Green at Minority-Serving Institutions
UNCF's Building Green learning institutes
attracted leaders and faculty from 104
minority-serving colleges and universities,
with a total enrollment of 552,987.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 23
The moment singer-songwriter Lionel Richie stepped onto the UNCF
An Evening of Stars(R)
stage to receive the program's annual Award of
Excellence was special--in more ways than one. Not only because of the
music-industry icons who had preceded Richie over the UNCF An Evening
of Stars(R)
`s 32 years. Not only because Richie has written and recorded a
seemingly endless string of hits, including the iconic humanitarian anthem,
"We Are the World," which he co-wrote with Michael Jackson. But because,
as an alumnus of UNCF-member institution Tuskegee University, Richie
is a shining example of the ability of UNCF colleges and universities to
prepare young men and women for careers of success and service.
A galaxy of stars--Akon, Katharine McPhee, Jesse McCartney, Ledisi and
many more--turned out to perform the songs that Richie made famous and
to tell a sold-out studio audience and millions of viewers around the country
about UNCF's work enabling students to attend and graduate from college.
James Ingram, Natalie Cole and Erica Campbell joined the legendary Stevie
Wonder in a performance of Richie and Jackson's timeless "We Are the
World." The program's emotional climax was a moving tribute to the King
of Pop, Michael Jackson, a longtime friend of UNCF who endowed a UNCF
scholarship that has helped almost 300 students attend UNCF colleges and
universities. The tribute was hosted by UNCF President and CEO Dr. Michael
Lomax and Laysha Ward, president of Target Community Relations, and was
presented by Target.
But the undisputed star of the UNCF An Evening of Stars(R)
Tribute to Lionel
Richie was--who else?--Lionel Richie. He received a standing ovation
for his performance of three of his most popular songs, "All Night Long,"
"Hello" and "Easy." And he moved many in the audience to tears with his
reminiscences of his student days at Tuskegee and his heartfelt evocation
of how what he learned in college enabled him to take command of his own
career and manage it to his best long-term advantage.
Richie's phenomenally successful career, and all that he has given back to
his school, his community and the world, speak to the strong beginning he
had at Tuskegee University and to the potential of Tuskegee and all UNCF-
member institutions to give students a foundation to contribute to their
professions, their communities and to the United States.
UNCF AN EVENING OF STARS(R)
Music with a Mission
The audience for UNCF An
Evening of Stars(R)
ranks first
among all nationally syndicated,
first-run original programs
and for all African American
TV households.
#1
24 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 25
26 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
The Campaign for Emergency Student
Aid has enabled more than 4,000 UNCF-
supported seniors to graduate on time.
4,000
At a time when young men and women need a college degree to launch
their careers--and at a time when the nation needs all the college-educated
workers it can get--thousands of UNCF college seniors are at risk of having
to stop their education just short of graduation day. They're the students
whose graduation is threatened by the lingering recession.
It's the second year in a row that hard economic times have threatened
to derail UNCF graduating seniors. It was spring of last year when, all
across the UNCF network of colleges and universities, graduating seniors
struggled to pay their tuition, textbook and housing bills so they could
receive their diplomas on graduation day. They had seen layoffs and pay
cuts slash family financial help. The credit crunch squeezed many private
student loans off the market. And a falling stock market reduced the help
foundations and corporations could provide.
But UNCF was there to help. More than $7.5 million in emergency
scholarship aid--from longtime UNCF partners like ExxonMobil, JPMorgan
Chase, Lowe's and the Andrew Mellon Foundation and more from thousands
of corporate, foundation and individual supporters--enough for more than
4,000 students to walk across the stage with their classmates and receive
their college degrees.
Some say the recession is ending. But unemployment is still high, squeezing
the resources of students and families and once again threatening seniors'
graduation plans. And once again, UNCF is committed to giving its seniors
the help they need to cross the last hurdle to graduation by gathering
support for the Campaign for Emergency Student Aid.
Will UNCF supporters once again come to the rescue of the seniors the
nation needs? Stay tuned.
EMERGENCY AID FOR THE NEXT GENERATION OF LEADERS
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 27
Not all the classes students need to get to and through college are listed
in the college catalog or taught in classrooms. Sometimes students get
valuable information and insights outside of school from teachers who
speak the language that young people understand.
That's where the UNCF HBCU Empower Me Tour comes in: a traveling road
show that provides the knowledge that students need but don't always get in
class--life-skill areas like health and wellness, financial education, college
readiness and entrepreneurship--from experts and celebrities who command
young people's attention and respect and from sponsors like Wells Fargo,
FedEx, Burger King, American Cancer Society and the U.S. Army.
Now completing its third year on the road with sponsor Wells Fargo, the
UNCF HBCU Empower Me Tour added new stops to its schedule and new
experts and celebrities to its lineup. In addition to HBCU campuses like
Tuskegee University, Clark Atlanta University, Hampton University and
Xavier University, the Empower Me Tour added stops in cities like Chicago,
Los Angeles, Minneapolis and New York.
The Tour reaches out to students and families who might not be as familiar
as their counterparts in HBCU college towns with how important college
is, what it takes to become college-ready and the educational, cultural,
financial support and enrichments that HBCUs offer.
At every UNCF HBCU Empower Me Tour stop, audiences of middle school,
high school and college students heard success stories like those of
entrepreneur Dr. Randal Pinkett, talk-show host Warren Ballentine, actress
Tatyana Ali and comedian and Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, Inc., President Sheryl
Underwood talk about what college meant to them and how what they
had learned there empowered them to launch their careers and give back
to young people and their communities, diversify their business interests
and overcome race and gender obstacles. And they found out how they
could become part of the Empower Me community by sharing their own
experiences on "Empower Me TV," hosted by Malik Yoba.
Most important, they got a taste of the true breadth and depth of
education--and how empowering education can be.
THE UNCF HBCU EMPOWER ME TOUR
Tapping into the Power of Education
More than 15,000 high school and college
students have attended Empower Me Tour stops.
15,000
28 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 29
*Includes in-kind contribution
**Includes support for sponsorships and
special events
CORPORATIONS
$1,000,000 and up
Merck & Company, Inc.**
Target* **
Wachovia Wells Fargo Foundation* **
$500,000 - $999,999
AT&T**
Bloomberg* **
Foot Locker Foundation, Inc.
Google, Inc.
Lowe's Charitable and Education
Foundation
McDonald's Corporation**
P&G Fund of The Greater Cincinnati
Foundation**
The Boston Consulting Group*
Walmart Foundation
$100,000 - $499,999
Altria Group, Inc.
American Airlines* **
American Express
Amtrak*
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.**
Bank of America Charitable Foundation
BET Networks* **
BlueCross BlueShield of Florida**
Carmen Group*
Chevron Corporation**
Citi Foundation**
Costco Wholesale Corporation**
Darden Restaurants, Inc.**
Dell
Delta Air Lines**
FedEx Corporation*
GE Foundation
General Mills Foundation**
General Motors Foundation
Georgia Power Foundation, Inc.
Goldman Sachs Foundation
i-MAPP Marketing Consulants, LLC*
ING**
Johnson Controls Foundation**
Marathon Oil
Nissan North America, Inc.
Oracle USA, Inc.
Sodexo Foundation
The UPS Foundation
Time Magazine* **
Toyota Motor Sales USA, Inc.
United Health Foundation
United Water**
USA Funds**
Verizon Wireless
Wells Fargo Bank*
WGN Television* **
Young & Rubicam* **
$50,000 - $99,999
ALDI, Inc.
Chadbourne & Parke, LLP*
Citi
ClearPath Solutions Group*
ComEd, an Exelon Company**
Ebony Magazine* **
Edison International Foundation**
Entergy Corporation
Essence Magazine* **
Georgia-Pacific Foundation
GlaxoSmithKline
Intel Foundation
Interactive One* **
Lockheed Martin Corporation**
Macy's**
MetLife Foundation
Monsanto Fund
Myers Ventures, LLC*
NASCAR
PepsiCo**
Pfizer, Inc.
PNC Bank Foundation
Polsinelli & Shugart*
San Manuel Band of Mission Indians
Sprint Foundation
State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company
Sweepstake Production, LLC
The Boeing Company**
The Coca-Cola Company**
The Kroger Company
The Xerox Corporation
TV Guide* **
$25,000 - $49,999
22 Squared, Inc.
AFLAC
AGL Resources, Inc.
AirTran Airways, Inc.**
Alaska Airlines**
Anthem BlueCross BlueShield**
Avis Budget Group
AXA Foundation
Bank of America
BB&T Charitable Foundation
Best Buy
MAJOR DONORS
"My number one assignment is to know you...
I need to know you before I can teach you."
- Dr. James Mbyrukira
Chair, Department of Education
UNCF-member Oakwood University
30 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
These lists represent gifts from April 2009 to March 2010. Efforts have been taken to ensure a
full and accurate listing. In the event of an inadvertent error, please alert UNCF immediately.
Black Enterprise Magazine* **
BNY Mellon**
BP Corporation**
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
CenterPoint Energy* **
Colgate-Palmolive Company**
Disney Worldwide Services**
DTE Energy
Eli Lilly and Company**
Farmer's Insurance Group, Inc.
Fitch Even Tabin & Flannery*
Ford Motor Company
Greyhound Lines, Inc.
H-E-B**
Hewitt**
Houston Astros Baseball Club**
HSBC
Illinois Tool Works/Illinois Tool Works
Foundation**
Investment Company Institute Education
Foundation
ITT Corporation
Jet Magazine* **
Jim Beam Brands Co.**
JPMorgan Chase**
Kimberly-Clark Foundation, Inc.
Liberty Mutual
Malcolm Pirnie, Inc.
MasterCard Worldwide
Mellon Financial Corporation
Foundation
Northrop Grumman Corporation
NYSE Foundation, Inc.
PSEG Services Corporation
Publix Super Markets, Inc.
R.J. Reynolds Foundation
Rx for Reading
Shell Oil Company
Sony Corporation of America
SPX Foundation
SunTrust Bank
Super Grocers
Synovus Financial Corporation
The Allstate Corporation**
The Home Depot, Inc.**
The Hoop Dreams Scholarship Fund
The Parades Shops/Jethro Pugh
The Pentair Foundation
Union Bank**
Verizon Foundation
WCCO - TV* **
WJLA - TV Channel 7* **
Wm. Wrigley, Jr., Company Foundation
$15,000 - $24,999
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
Andrews Kurth, LLP
Assurant
BNSF Foundation
Caterpillar Foundation
CDM
Cox Communications, Inc.
Emerson Process Management
Equifax, Inc.
Hess Foundation
Images USA
JCPenney
Liberty Bank
Louisiana Lottery Corporation**
McDonald's Cleveland Crew Scholarship
New Jersey Manufacturers Insurance
Company
New York Giants Football Team, Inc.
Pacific Gas & Electric Company
Ronald McDonald House Charities -
Indiana Central
Ronald McDonald's House Charities of
North Texas, Inc.
Sara Lee Foundation
St. Paul Travelers, Inc.
St. Petersburg Golf Classic
The Blindside Left Tackle
Pictures, LLC
The Fremont Group Foundation
The Lincoln Electric Foundation
Tulalip Resort Casino* **
Turner Broadcasting Systems, Inc.
USAA Corporation
Vectren Foundation, Inc.
$10,000 - $14,999
Alliance Data
American Direct Marketing
Resources, LLC
Clearpath**
Dominion
Duchossois Industries, Inc.
Estee Lauder, Inc.
Frito-Lay, Inc.
GEICO
Hallmark Corporate Foundation
HMS Host
KBR, Inc.
Marshall & Ilsley Corporation
MGM Grand Detroit Casino
Michelin North America
New York Knicks
New York Yankees Foundation
Nordstrom
Ocean Bank
Regions Bank
RR Donnelley
Schering-Plough Corporation
Segue**
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom, LLP
Sonoco Foundation
Sysco Corporation**
Tampa Bay Buccaneers
The Clorox Company Foundation
The Millipore Foundation
T-Mobile
Vulcan Materials Company Foundation
Wisconsin Energy Corporation
Foundation, Inc.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 31
*Includes in-kind contribution
**Includes support for sponsorships and
special events
$5,000 - $9,999
3M Company
Allison Transmission
ARAMARK
Associated Bank
Baird Foundation, Inc.
Bank of The West
BlueCross BlueShield of Louisiana
BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina
BMW
Capital One
Cappex
CGX Mount Vernon Printing Company*
Chicago Tribune Foundation
CNA Foundation
Coaxum Enterprises, Inc.
Cooper DDB & Hayes, Inc.
Corn Products International
Cox Enterprises, Inc.
CVS Corporation, Inc.
D. Stephenson Construction, Inc.
Dow Corning Corporation
Dow Jones Foundation
Fiserve
Freemind Ventures, LLC
General Dynamics Land Systems
Division
Giant Eagle Foundation
Gilbane Building Company, Inc.
His & Her Hair Goods Company
H.J. Heinz Company Foundation
Honda of Bowie
Honda of South Carolina Mfg., Inc.
Imation Corp.
Jeremiah C. Gaffney Funeral Home
Kikkoman Foods Foundation, Inc.
Legacy Bank
LexisNexis
Louisiana Lottery Corporation
MASCO Corporation
Mayo Foundation for Medical Education
and Research
Mcleod Health
McMoRan Oil & Gas, LLC
Mutual of America Foundation
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen
Pharmaceutical, Inc.
Psychists, Inc.
Robert Half International, Inc.
Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi, LLP
Rolls-Royce Corporation
Ronald McDonald House
Charities Central
South Jersey Industries, Inc.
Southstar Management, Inc.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide, Inc.
St. Vincent Hospital and HCC, Inc.
Tampa Bay Sports Commission, Inc.
The Alcon Foundation
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company
The Havi Group, Inc.
The House of Bernstein, Inc.
The Washington Post Company
Tyson Foundation, Inc.
Volkswagen North American
Warrior Group
Wendy's of New Orleans
Advertising, Inc.
West & Associates, LLP
Wilkes & McHugh, PA
FOUNDATIONS
$1,000,000 and up
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
The Kresge Foundation
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
$100,000 - $999,999
The Ahmanson Foundation
The Ray Charles Foundation
Ford Foundation
The Paul and Mary Haas Foundation
The Lincy Foundation
The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation
The J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott
Foundation
The Ambrose Monell Foundation
Samuel I. Newhouse Foundation Inc.
The Peierls Foundation
The Robinson-Harris Foundation, Inc.
The Skirball Foundation
The Walton Family Foundation
The Daniel M. Ziff Foundation
MAJOR DONORS
"Education is the single most important
issue because it is the answer to every
other problem we confront."
- Former Sen. Christopher Dodd
32 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
These lists represent gifts from April 2009 to March 2010. Efforts have been taken to ensure a
full and accurate listing. In the event of an inadvertent error, please alert UNCF immediately.
$50,000 - $99,999
The Druskin Family Foundation, Inc.
George R. Kendall Foundation
John S. and James L. Knight Foundation
The James Annenberg La Vea
Charitable Foundation
The Thomas and Dorothy Leavey
Foundation
Lilly Endowment, Inc.
The Meadows Foundation
Charles Miller Memorial Foundation, Inc.
The RosaMary Foundation
Peter B. and Adeline W. Ruffin
Foundation
The Skillman Foundation
$25,000 - $49,999
Castle Rock Foundation
The Elmer Roe Deaver Foundation
Alfred G. and Hope P. Goldstein Fund
Hagedorn Fund
The Hausman Family Charitable Trust
Hudson-Webber Foundation
Artishia and Frederick Jordan
Scholarship Fund, Inc.
The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.
William M. Keck Jr., Foundation
Keller Family Foundation
McGregor Fund
Edward M. Nagel Foundation
The Negaunee Foundation
Newman's Own Foundation
Stan and Joyce Rawley Foundation
Walter H. and Marjory M. Rich
Memorial Fund
The Rees-Jones Foundation
Reynolds American Foundation
Supreme Council Benevolent Foundation
The Alice Tully Foundation
Turn 2 Foundation
The Wollenberg Foundation
$10,000 - $24,999
Fred C. and Katherine B. Andersen
Foundation
John W. Anderson Foundation
Walter C. and Lucy I. Astrup Fund, No. 2
Banbury Fund, Inc.
S.D. Bechtel, Jr., Foundation
The Beulah Fund
Judy Buechner Advised Fund
Burchenal Family Foundation
Bushrod H. Campbell and Adah F. Hall
Charity Fund
Amon G. Carter Foundation
Cedric "The Entertainer" Charitable
Foundation, Inc.
Edwin W. and Catherine M. Davis
Foundation
The D'Onofrio Foundation
English, Bonter, Mitchell Foundation
Ella Fitzgerald Charitable Foundation
Fremont Group Foundation
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation
The Graco Foundation
Verle and Eleanor Hammond
Foundation
Mary W. Harriman Foundation
Hess Foundation
Herman N. Hipp First Foundation
Ryan Howard Family Foundation
Minnie I. Hutchinson Memorial
Foundation
Dora Donner Ide Core Trust
Ingram-White Castle Foundation
Irving H. and Marjorie S. Isaac
Philanthropic Fund
The Matthew and Roberta Jenkins
Family Foundation
The James M. Johnston Trust for
Charitable Education
Jolley Foundation
KeyBank Foundation**
F.M. Kirby Foundation, Inc.
A.G. Lafley Fund of The Greater
Cincinnati Foundation
Lakeside Foundation
The Ray M. and Mary Elizabeth Lee
Foundation, Inc.
Litterman Family Foundation
The Fred Maytag Family Foundation
The McCutchen Foundation
The Eugene McDermott Foundation
McInerney Family Foundation
Laurie Michaels Advised Fund of Aspen
Community Foundation
William A. and Elizabeth B. Moncrief
Foundation
Nashner Fund
The Nord Family Foundation
The Oceanic Heritage Foundation
The Rich Foundation, Inc.
James Rosin Foundation
Rundgren Foundation
Sage Foundation
The San Francisco Foundation
The Siragusa Foundation
The Donald T. Sterling Charitable
Foundation
Sulzberger Foundation Ruth Holmberg
Giving Fund
H. van Ameringen Foundation
Venable Foundation
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 33
$5,000 - $9,999
Max A. Adler Charitable Foundation, Inc.
Hugh J. Andersen Foundation
M.D. Anderson Foundation
Aileen S. Andrew Foundation
The Paul and Edith Babson Foundation
George and Frances Ball Foundation
Banfi Vintners Foundation
Baptist Community Ministries
The Barra Foundation, Inc.
The Sandra Atlas Bass and Edythe &
Sol G. Atlas Fund
Thomas W. Bean Foundation
Beane Family Foundation
Bessie B. Bell Trust
Frances and Benjamen Benenson
Foundation, Inc.
The Black Professionals Association
Charitable Foundation
Blum-Kovler Foundation
Bridgemill Foundation
Carnahan-Jackson Foundation
The Castillo Charitable Foundation
The Chatlos Foundation, Inc.
The George W. Codrington Charitable
Foundation
Cogswell Benevolent Trust
Arie and Ida Crown Memorial
The Dancing Skies Foundation
Demoulas Foundation
Dick and Betsy DeVos Foundation
Zalec Familian and Lillian Levinson
Foundation
The Fann Family Foundation
Max M. & Marjorie S. Fisher Foundation
The Flocco Family Charitable Fund
The Mary Alice Fortin Foundation, Inc.
John and Mary Franklin Foundation
Robert W. Galvin Foundation, Inc.
Edward & Verna Gerbic Family
Foundation
Germeshausen Foundation, Inc.
The Goodnow Fund
The Henry W. Grady Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. David F. Hart Fund
Albert and Ethel Herzstein Charitable
Foundation
The Sandy Hill Foundation
Hipkins Fund
JF Fund of The Minneapolis Foundation
The Michael H. Jordan and Kathryn H.
Jordan Family Foundation
Mary and Kennelly Foundation
The Helen and Edward Lane Endowment
Fund III
Demarest Lloyd, Jr. Foundation
Georges Lurcy Charitable and
Educational Trust
Marmot Foundation
McCombs Foundation
Joseph F. McCrindle Foundation
The Minneapolis Foundation
Neeb Family Foundation
New Horizon Foundation-The Revelle
Fund
The Amy Klette Newman Foundation
Nuveen Benevolent Trust
Sylvan and Ann Oestreicher
Foundation, Inc.
Oliver Memorial Trust Foundation
Bessie Pappas Charitable
Foundation, Inc.
The Andrew M. Paul Family Foundation
PAV Foundation
Ashton Phelps, Jr. Family Fund
The Pincus Family Foundation
Patricia G. and Robert A. Plitt
Charitable Fund
Herman T. and Phenie R. Pott
Foundation
Pringle Family Charitable Fund
The Myra Stafford Pryor Charitable
Trust
Benjamin J. Rosenthal Foundation
Charles & M. R. Shapiro Foundation, Inc.
Silicon Valley Foundation
Harold Simmons Foundation
The Snowden Foundation
Richard and Elizabeth R. Steele Fund
The Charles J. Strosacker Foundation
Supreme Council Benevolent
Foundation
Tecumseh Foundation
Bill and Connie Timmons Family
Charitable Fund
Wenger Foundation
Wickenden Gift Fund
Woodward Fund
The World Bank Community
Connections Fund
Legacy DonorS
Estate of Vera Adams
Frank L. Babbott, Jr., Trust
Estate of Corine E. Beverly
Nicholas and Lois Blatchford Trust
Estate of Samuel H. Brown
Henry Clay Bryant Trust
Estate of Harold Campbell
Estate of Charity B. Cantey
Estate of John R. Carlson
Estate of John Corby
Lucile Fessenden Dandelet Trust
Estate of Estelle A. DeLacy
Estate of Eunice B. Demuth
Estate of John Fitzgerald Due
Estate of Ruth Ehrlich
Estate of Yvonne Freeman
Estate of Mary A. Gerlach
Jean Gelardo Trust
Elizabeth L. Grundy Trust
Estate of Ethel F. Hall
Estate of Vertus W. Hardiman
W. Hugh and Gabrielle Mills
Headlee Trust
Doris B. Holerman Trust
Estate of Pearl T. Holladay
MAJOR DONORS *Includes in-kind contribution
**Includes support for sponsorships and
special events
34 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
These lists represent gifts from April 2009 to March 2010. Efforts have been taken to ensure a
full and accurate listing. In the event of an inadvertent error, please alert UNCF immediately.
Estate of Thelma E. Jack
Estate of Karl L. Jackson
Estate of Urbane Jackson
Diana Jerome Trust
Lorraine A. Joyce Trust
Estate of Rowena Byer Lawrence
Estate of Selma T. Lewis
Estate of Susan L. Mitenbuler
Estate of Angela Mittiga
Estate of Avis Nicholson
Estate of Cecilia S. O'Brien
Daniel O. Omer Trust
Goldie Otters Trust
Estate of Edwina Payton
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur William
Phillips Trust
Frank B. Pullara Trust
Estate of Lavinia Reese
Estate of Eugene Martin Ruderman
Estate of Rudolph Saunders
Estate of Emily Savarese
Edward C. Schultz Trust
Estate of Hans Schwerdtfeger
Estate of Carol I. Seligman
Estate of Lucille Shannon
Estate of Robert W. Short
Estate of Dorothy H. Simond
Dorothy M. Simpson Trust
Estate of Ivy M. Smith
Estate of Barry S. and Nevada R. Stone
Trust Under Will of Jessie H. Roby Stos
Estate of John W. Thomas, M.D.
Haskell and Janice Titchell Trust
Estate of Harry Tsucalas
Estate of James B. Tunny, Jr.
Estate of Samson A. Ullmann
Estate of Elma Jean Visser
Estate of Myrtle A. Washington
Estate of Lee S. Waterman
Estate of Bernice Winslow
Estate of David H. Wood
Nathalie F.S. Woodbury Trust
CORPORATE WORKPLACE
CAMPAIGNS
$100,000 and up
AT&T
Exxon Mobile Corporation
HSBC - North America "United for
Hope" Campaign
JPMorgan Chase Foundation
Wal-Mart Corporation
$50,000 - $99,999
PepsiCo Foundation Matching
Gift Campaign
$25,000 - $49,999
American Express Employee
Corporate Campaign
IBM Employee Campaign
$10,000 - $24,999
AT&T - United Way Giving Campaign
Citi - St. Louis
Edison International
Educational Testing Services
Microsoft Employee Giving Campaign
PSE&G
United Airlines
Verizon Wireless
"College prices continue to rise rapidly,
while family incomes decline or at best
remain stagnant. These circumstances
make the role of financial aid in allowing
students to enroll and succeed in college
ever more important."
- The College Board Advocacy & Policy Center
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 35
*Includes in-kind contribution
**Includes support for sponsorships and
special events
$5,000 - $9,999
Abbott Laboratories Employee Giving
Campaign
Chevron Humankind
Employees Community Fund of
The Boeing Company
Pfizer Matching Gift Campaign
PG&E Corporation Foundation/
Campaign for the Community
The Capital Group Companies
Charitable Foundation
The Clorox Company Foundation/
Employee Giving
Wells Fargo Community Support
Campaign
GROUPS
$50,000 and up
American Electric Power - Columbus, OH
$25,000 - $49,999
Allstate Giving Campaign - Norfolk, VA
Chicago Inter-Alumni Council -
Chicago, IL
Regions Bank - Birmingham, AL
Washington Inter-Alumni Council -
Washington, DC
$10,000 - $24,999
AEP for UNCF - Columbus, OH
Clark Atlanta University - Atlanta, GA
Greater NY Inter-Alumni Council -
New York, NY
Jack and Jill of America -
Washington, DC
Los Angeles Bridge Unit
Los Angeles Inter-Alumni Council -
Long Beach, CA
$5,000 - $9,999
Alpha Kappa Alpha - Alpha Mu Omega
Chapter, Indianapolis, IN
Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. -
Indianapolis, IN
California Governor's Office for Women
and Families - Santa Monica, CA
Citizens for Lisa Madigan - Chicago, IL
Daughters of Charity Services New
Orleans - Harvey, LA
Democratic Party of Virginia -
Richmond, VA
Florence Public School District -
Florence, SC
The Holidays Incorporated - Davie, FL
The Junior League of Hartford -
Hartford, CT
Las Vegas Metropolitan Inter-Alumni
Council - Las Vegas, NV
The Metropolitan Bridge Unit -
Yonkers, NY
National Football League Players
Association - Washington, DC
Philomathean Club -
Santa Monica, CA
Team OCLC - Dublin, OH
Tougaloo College Pre-Alumni
Council - Tougaloo, MS
UNIONS
$25,000 and up
AFSCME AFL-CIO -Washington, DC
$10,000 - $24,999
The New Jersey Labor Advisory Board
UNCF AFSCME Co - Trenton, NJ
CHURCHES
$25,0000 and up
Alfred Street Baptist Church -
 Alexandria, VA
Brook Hollow Baptist Church -
Houston, TX
Brentwood Baptist Church -
Houston, TX
$10,000 - $24,999
Christ the King Church - Milwaukee, WI
Enon Tabernacle -Germantown -
Philadelphia, PA
First Baptist Church West - Charlotte, NC
Fort Belvoir Chapel, Department of the
Army - Fort Belvoir, VA
The Fountain of Praise - Houston, TX
Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church -
Maitland, FL
Mount Zion Baptist Church -
Arlington, VA
Saint Paul Baptist Church - Charlotte, NC
Silverlake Church - Pearland, TX
University Park Baptist Church -
Charlotte, NC
Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church -
Houston, TX
Windsor Village United Methodist Church -
Houston, TX
Zion Baptist Church - Washington, DC
$5,000 - $9,999
Antioch Missionary Baptist Church -
Beaumont, TX
Bethlehem Baptist Church -
Alexandria, VA
Bolling Air Force Base, Chaplain Corps -
Washington, DC
Cornerstone Baptist Church -
Brooklyn, NY
Eastern Star Church - Indianapolis, IN
First Baptist Church, Denbigh - Newport
News, VA
MAJOR DONORS
36 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
These lists represent gifts from April 2009 to March 2010. Efforts have been taken to ensure a
full and accurate listing. In the event of an inadvertent error, please alert UNCF immediately.
First Baptist Church of Highland Park -
Landover, MD
First Institutional Baptist Church -
Phoenix, AZ
Fort Meade Chapel - Fort Meade, MD
Friendship Missionary Baptist Church -
Charlotte NC
Lighthouse Church of God in Christ -
Beaumont, TX
Memorial Presbyterian Church -
New York, NY
Mount Olive Baptist Church -
East Orange, NJ
New Mount Olive Baptist Church -
Fort Lauderdale, FL
Saint Paul Baptist Church -
Montclair, NJ
Trinity Baptist Church - Bronx, NY
Walker Memorial Baptist Church -
New York, NY
PUBLIC CAMPAIGNS
$100,000 and up
Chicago Area Combined Federal
Campaign
Chicago Public School Employee
Campaign
City of Chicago Employee Campaign
City of Philadelphia Combined
Campaign
Combined Federal Campaign -
Global Impact-Overseas
Combined Federal Campaign of
Metropolitan Atlanta
Combined Federal Campaign of North
Central Texas
Combined Federal Campaign of the
National Capital Region
Maryland Charity Campaign
United Way of the National
Capital Region
United Way of SE Michigan
$50,000 - $99,999
Atlanta Public Schools
City of Cleveland Employees Campaign
Cleveland Board of Education -
Cleveland Municipal School District
Combined Federal Campaign -
Philadelphia Area
Dekalb County Public Schools
Dekalb School Employees Foundation
Los Angeles Area Combined Federal
Campaign
Los Angeles City Treasury, DWP
Los Angeles Unified School District
New York City CFC
Pennsylvania State Employees
Combined Appeal (SECA) Campaign
State of Georgia Charitable Campaign
State of Michigan
United Wayfor the Greater New
OrleansArea
United Way New York City Campaign
Winston-Salem/Forsyth County Schools
$25,000 - $49,999
Atlanta Housing Authority
Combined Federal Campaign of Palm
Beach County
City of Los Angeles
Combined Federal Campaign for the
Greater New OrleansArea
Combined Federal Campaign of the
Texas Gulf Coast
Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority
Dallas Independent School District
Forth Worth Independent School District
Gateway Combined Federal Campaign
Houston Independent School District
Charitable Campaign
MARTA
North Carolina State Employees
Combined Campaign
Regional Transit Authority
Southeastern Pennsylvania
Transportation Authority
State and University Employees
Combined Appeal (SECA) - IL
United Way Campaign - Capital Region
United Way of Delaware County
United Way of Greater Cleveland
United Way of Metropolitan Chicago
University of Minnesota
"Better education is a cause behind which Americans
of every ideological stripe can unite. This is education
reform's ace in the hole--the potential for building
a constituency that brings parents, citizens and the
business community together."
- Dr. Michael L. Lomax
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 37
$10,000 - $24,999
Akron Public Schools Employee
Campaign
American Airlines African American
Employee Resource Group
American Charities
Argonne National Laboratory
Board of Education of the City of
Birmingham, AL
Combined Federal Campaign of
Central Alabama
Chattanooga Area Combined Federal
Campaign
City of Birmingham
Combined Charities Campaign
of Illinois
Combined Federal Campaign of
Cleveland
Combined Federal Campaign of
King County
Combined Federal Campaign of
San Antonio
Cuyahoga Community College
Detroit Public Schools
Environmental Federation of California
Federated Campaign
Fulton School Employees
Hawaii Pacific Area Combined Federal
Campaign
Heartland Combined Federal Campaign
Hennepin County
Metropolitan Arts Partnership -
Combined Federal Campaign
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
of Greater Chicago
Middle Georgia Area Combined Federal
Campaign
New Jersey StateEmployees Charitable
Campaign
New York Transit Authority
Principal Combined Fund Organization
- Combined Federal Campaign
Oklahoma City
State Employees Community Campaign
The City of Houston Combined
Municipal Campaign
Truist
United Way of Greater New Haven, CT
United Way of Midland
United Way of the Capital Region UNCF/
UW Partnership
United Way, Inc.
University of Minnesota Disbursement
Services
$5,000 - $9,999
Capital Area United Way
City of New Orleans
City of Seattle
City of St. Louis
Clayton County Public Schools
Combined Federal Campaign - Denver
Combined Federal Campaign of
Augusta, GA
Combined Federal Campaign of
Columbia, SC
Combined Federal Campaign of Kitsap
and Mason Counties
Combined Federal Campaign of
Nashville, TN
Combined Federal Campaign of
Northwest Louisiana
Community Health Charities -
MECCA - TN
County of Santa Clara Warrant
County of Wayne
CSRA of Augusta, GA
Cuyahoga Community College
Employees Campaign
Cuyahoga County
Florence Public School District One
Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Network for Good
Northern New Jersey Combined Federal
Campaign
Saint Paul Public Schools Independent
School District 625
Savannah-Chatham Public Schools
Southeastern Michigan Combined
Federal Campaign
Southern New Jersey Combined
Federal Campaign
St. Louis Public Schools
State of Washington
Texas State Employee Charitable
Campaign
Tri-Community Combined Federal
Campaign of Columbus, GA
TridentCounty Campaign - Charleston
United Way Lake Area Campaign
United Way of Allegheny
United Way of Central Alabama
United Way of Central Indiana, Inc. -
Combined Federal Campaign
United Way of Lake County - Combined
Federal Campaign
United Way of San Diego County
United Way of Tucson and Southern
Arizona - Combined Federal Campaign
United Way - City of Greater Kansas
City, MO
Valley of the Sun United Way
Washington State Employee CFD
INDIVIDUALS
$5,000 and up
Mr. and Mrs. Hank Aaron
James N. Alston
John M. and Alix Ankele
Vernon G. Baker, II
Lindie Banks
Francis and Shirley Bennett
Allen and Joan Bildner
Catherine Roberts Bridgeman
Roger O. and Barbara Brown
Susan Brown
Willie L. Brown, Jr.
Paul Burtness
Velma Butler
Margery Brittain
Lucy Cade
Mrs. Dorwin Cartwright
Ann Carver and Sa-Ra
Karen Champion
Kenneth and Kathryn Chenault
Catherine Cheung and Richard Rabin
Thomas Claugus
Edward A. Coburn
Jean A. Coyne
Clan Crawford
MAJOR DONORS
38 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
These lists represent gifts from April 2009 to March 2010. Efforts have been taken to ensure a
full and accurate listing. In the event of an inadvertent error, please alert UNCF immediately.
John and Sarah Davenport
Willma H. Davis
Sarah C. Doering
Derrell Dowdell
Tammerlin Drummond
Jean Due
George W. and Lisa O. Etheridge, Jr.
Richard Fain
J.C. Flowers & Co.
Gerald and Jane Garbacz
Adam and Carol Geballe
Raymond V. and Gladys H. Gilmartin
Jackson and Irene Golden 1989
Charitable Trust
Timothy Greenfield-Sanders
Jay Grinney
John C. Hanson
Charles Harvey
James L. Heath
Mary P. Hines
Michelle J. Hooper
Marjorie S. Isaac
Raynald Holder
Betty Wold Johnson
Charlie and Betty Johnson
Thomas and Elisabeth Jones
James Jordan
Wayne D. Jordan
L. Daniel and Patricia M. Jordnt
Sirretha Joy
Willis Kelley
Hannah Kellogg-Dowell
John J. Kennelly
Louise Kjellstrom
Richard and Doreen Kopf
Caleb Kramer
Irene Daniell Kress
Kenneth and Monica Kulander
Vincent and Mary Ann Kyle
Effie D. Lathrop
Basil G. Lee
Theodora R. Lee, Esq.
Tom and Laura Leppert
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Liebman
Virginia G. Little
Leah U. Lockhart
Michael L. and Cheryl F. Lomax
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph. R. Malloure
Joseph and Shirley Mangin
Frank J. Mason
Julia Jones Matthews
Jesse McCartney
R. Sean and Robert McConlogue
Mrs. Alan Melvile
Maxine Morrison
Elise S. Myer
Tracy R. Nolan
Eleanor M. Neumayer
President and Mrs. Barack Obama
Felix I. Oviasu, MD
Bob J. Perry
Malcolm Pirnie
James D. Pitcock
The Honorable and Mrs. Colin Powell
Pringle Family Charitable Fund
Harriet P. Richardson
Mrs. Lora Robins
Kenneth and Jean Robinson
David Rockefeller
Stephen A. Roell
Dr. James. M. Rosin Memorial
Scholarship Fund
Mark and Louise Roznik
David W. Russell
Andrea and Kenneth Saffir
Betty and Hardy Sanders
Cynthia Amadon Schliemann
Michael and Sara Schnitzer
Diane Schulz
William J. Shaw
James D. Sinegal
Patricia Sloan
Sonata Charitable Lead Trust
Jack Stahl
Matthew E. Steinmetz
John D. Summers
Curtis H. Tearte
Hank and Yvonne Thomas
Stan and Dotty Thurston
Cheryl J. Tyson
Gerald and Ruth Vurek
Dr. George Wallerstein
Adrienne Kay Weekes
Joan T. Wheeler
Gennifer and Marvin White
John Wesley White
Dr. Thomas C. Wickenden
Marilyn Williams
Alan Wilson
Rhonda Hill Wilson
Lucy Winton
Mildred J. Yearby
The Honorable and Mrs. Andrew Young
Floyd D. Young
H.A. and Kristin Hussey Zisson
An Evening of Stars(R)
Tribute to Lionel Richie
Presenting Sponsor
Target
National Sponsors
AT&T
McDonald's Corporation
Official Sponsors
American Airlines
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.
BET Networks
Wells Fargo
WGN America
Local Sponsors
Black Radio Exclusive
Clear Channel - Radio Chicago
Comerica Charitable Foundation
Exelon Corporation
Johnson Products
KGO
KSMO - TV
Network Appliances
News Channel 5
PSEG Company Foundation
RC TV - 2
Southern Living
WTVD Television (ABC Foundation, Inc.)
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 39
Corporate Board of Directors
Celia A. Colbert
Senior Vice President,
Secretary and Assistant
General Council
Merck & Company, Inc.
Gary L. Cowger
Group President (retired)
General Motors Corporation
Leslie A. Dach
Executive Vice President,
Corporate Affairs and
Government Relations
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
James Dimon
Chairman and CEO
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Robert Druskin
Chairman
E*Trade Financial
Alfred G. Goldstein
President and CEO
A.G. Associates
Tamara Harris Robinson
Vice President
Robinson Harris Foundation
Lloyd Howell, Jr.
Executive Vice President
Booz Allen Hamilton
Milton H. Jones, Jr.
Managing Partner
Integrated Capital Strategies, LLC
Mark Mason
Chief Operating Officer and
Managing Director
Citi Holdings
Barbara A. McKinzie
International President
Alpha Kappa Alpha
Sorority, Inc.
Hamish McLennan
Global CEO
Y&R Advertising
Kevin A. Rhein
Executive Vice President, Card
Services and Consumer Lending
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
Linda Johnson Rice
Chairman
Johnson Publishing Company
William J. Shaw
Vice Chairman and Director
Marriott International
James D. Sinegal
President and CEO
Costco Wholesale Corporation
Jack L. Stahl
William F. Stasior
Senior Chairman
Booz Allen Hamilton
Robert Steele
Vice Chair
Global Health and Well-Being
Procter & Gamble
Andrew P. Swiger
Senior Vice President
Exxon Mobil
Michael Szymanczyk
Chairman and CEO
Altria Group, Inc.
Larry D. Thompson
Senior Vice President,
Government Affairs,
General Counsel and Secretary
PepsiCo
Safroadu Yeboah-Amankwah
Director (Senior Partner)
McKinsey & Company
Officers and Directors
40 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Institutional Directors
Dr. Norman C. Francis
President
Xavier University
Dr. George T. French, Jr.
President
Miles College
Dr. Marvalene Hughes
President
Dillard University
Dr. Jimmy R. Jenkins, Sr.
President
Livingstone College
Dr. Julianne Malveaux
President
Bennett College for Women
Dr. Wesley C. McClure
President
Lane College
Dr. Ernest C. McNealey
President
Stillman College
Dr. Trudie Kibbe Reed
President
Bethune-Cookman University
Dr. Luns C. Richardson
President
Morris College
Dr. Robert L. Satcher, Sr.
President
Saint Paul's College
Dr. David H. Swinton
President
Benedict College
Dr. Henry N. Tisdale
President
Claflin University
Dr. Johnnie B. Watson
President
LeMoyne-Owen College
Officers of the Corporation
William F. Stasior
Chair of the Board of Directors and
Chair of the Executive Committee
Alfred G. Goldstein
Vice Chair
Dr. Wesley C. McClure
Vice Chair of the Board
(Institutional Directors)
and Vice Chair of the
Executive Committee
Dr. Michael L. Lomax
President and CEO
James Dimon
Vice President
Shari F. Crittendon, Esq.
Secretary of the Corporation
Robert Druskin
Treasurer
Desiree C. Boykin, Esq.
Assistant Secretary
Early W. Reese
Assistant Treasurer
"We know the countries that out-teach us today
will out-compete us tomorrow. That is why it
will be the goal of this administration to ensure
that every child has access to a complete and
competitive education--from the day they are
born to the day they begin a career."
- President Barack Obama
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 41
"President Obama has set an ambitious goal for the
nation. He wants America to again have the highest
proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020...
HBCUs will--and absolutely must--play a critical
leadership role in meeting this challenge."
- U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan
Atlanta
(404) 302-8623
229 Peachtree Street, NE
Suite 2350
Atlanta, GA 30303
Birmingham
(205) 322-8623
601 19th Street, North
2nd Floor
Birmingham, AL 35203
Boston
(617) 227-0937
15 Broad Street
Boston, MA 02109
Charlotte
(704) 377-8625
119 East 7th Street
Suite 1B
Charlotte, NC 28202
Chicago
(312) 845-2200
105 West Adams Street
Suite 2400
Chicago, IL 60603
Cleveland
(216) 781-8623
One Chagrin Highlands
2000 Auburn Drive
Suite 200
Cleveland, OH 44122
Columbus
(614) 221-5309
341 South Third Street
Suite 203
Columbus, OH 43215
Dallas
(972) 234-1007
501 Elm Street
Suite 700
Dallas, TX 75202
Detroit
(313) 873-1500
3031 West Grand Boulevard
Suite 531
Detroit, MI 48202
Ft. Lauderdale
(954) 527-3315
1222 South Andrews Avenue
Suite 502 A
Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33316
Houston
(713) 942-8623
723 Main Street
Suite 1010
Houston, TX 77002
Indianapolis
(317) 283-3920
3737 North Meridian Street
Suite 203
Indianapolis, IN 46208
Institute for Capacity Building
(404) 302-8607
229 Peachtree Street, NE
Suite 2350
Atlanta, GA 30303
UNCF Office Locations
Office Hours: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.
42 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Los Angeles
(213) 639-3800
3699 Wilshire Boulevard
Suite 675
Los Angeles, CA 90010
Milwaukee
(414) 372-6700
600 West Walnut Street
Suite 20
Milwaukee, WI 53212
Minneapolis
(612) 338-5742
1201 Marquette Avenue
Suite 300
Minneapolis, MN 55403
New Orleans
(504) 581-3794
1100 Poydras Street
Suite 1400
New Orleans, LA 70163
New York
(212) 820-0140
120 Wall Street
9th Floor
New York, NY 10005
Newark
(973) 642-1955
9-25 Alling Street
2nd Floor
Newark, NJ 07102
Orlando
(407) 896-6940
1080 Woodcock Road
Suite 280
Orlando, FL 32803
Philadelphia
(215) 925-9044
718 Arch Street
Suite 101 - South
Philadelphia, PA 19106
Richmond
(804) 359-1581
1500 North Lombardy Street
Room 211
Richmond, VA 23220
San Francisco
(415) 956-1018
220 Montgomery Street
Suite 1120
San Francisco, CA 94104
Seattle
(206) 292-8859
701 5th Avenue
Suite 3500
Seattle, WA 98104
St. Louis
(314) 241-5958
1015 Locust Street
Suite 406
St. Louis, MO 63101
Washington
(703) 205-3504
8260 Willow Oaks
Corporate Drive
Fairfax, VA 22031
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 43
UNCF-Member Institutions
Allen University Columbia, SC
Benedict College Columbia, SC
Bennett College for Women
Greensboro, NC
Bethune-Cookman University
Daytona Beach, FL
Claflin University Orangeburg, SC
Clark Atlanta University Atlanta, GA
Dillard University New Orleans, LA
Edward Waters College Jacksonville, FL
Fisk University Nashville, TN
Florida Memorial University
Miami, FL
Huston-Tillotson University
Austin, TX
Interdenominational Theological Center
Atlanta, GA
Jarvis Christian College
Hawkins, TX
Johnson C. Smith University
Charlotte, NC
Lane College Jackson, TN
LeMoyne-Owen College
Memphis, TN
Livingstone College Salisbury, NC
Miles College Birmingham, AL
44 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Morehouse College Atlanta, GA
Morris College Sumter, SC
Oakwood University Huntsville, AL
Paine College Augusta, GA
Paul Quinn College Dallas, TX
Philander Smith College
Little Rock, AR
Rust College Holly Springs, MS
Saint Augustine's College
Raleigh, NC
Saint Paul's College
Lawrenceville, VA
Shaw University Raleigh, NC
Spelman College Atlanta, GA
Stillman College Tuscaloosa, AL
Talladega College Talladega, AL
Texas College Tyler, TX
Tougaloo College Tougaloo, MS
Tuskegee University Tuskegee, AL
Virginia Union University Richmond, VA
Voorhees College Denmark, SC
Wilberforce University
Wilberforce, OH
Wiley College Marshall, TX
Xavier University New Orleans, LA
"Students are not ready for college,
colleges are not ready for students, and
public policy is not yet ready to take on
the complex challenge of ensuring people
successfully complete college degrees and
transition into rewarding careers."
- The Center for American Progress
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 45
46 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
United Negro College Fund, Inc.
Financial Statements and Independent Auditors' Report
Years Ended March 31, 2010, and 2009
Independent Auditors' Report. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Statements of Financial Position. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Statements of Activities. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50
Statements of Functional Expenses. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 51
Statements of Cash Flows. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
Notes to Financial Statements.
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 54
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 47
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' Report
To the Board of Directors and Members of United Negro College Fund, Inc.,
Fairfax, Virginia
We have audited the accompanying statements of financial position of the
United Negro College Fund, Inc. (UNCF) as of March 31, 2010, and 2009,
and the related statements of activities, functional expenses and cash flows
for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility
of UNCF's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. The prior year's summarized
and comparative information has been derived from UNCF's 2009 financial
statements and, in our report dated September 21, 2009, we expressed an
unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for
designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of UNCF's
internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such
opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of the United Negro College
Fund, Inc., as of March 31, 2010, and 2009, and the changes in its net assets
and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
August 16, 2010
BDO USA, LLP, a New York limited liability partnership, is the U.S. member of BDO International Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, and forms part of the international BDO network of independent member firms.
BDO is the brand name for the BDO network and for each of the BDO Member Firms.
48 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Statements of Financial Position
MARCH 31, 2010 2009
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $9,948,494  $13,860,548
Short-term investments (Note 5) 28,055,755  24,344,116
GMSP short-term investments (Note 5) 22,801,036  10,568,612
Receivable for unsettled investment trades (Notes 7 and 8) 399,427  173,931
Pledges receivable, net (Note 6) 9,116,256  17,108,732
Accrued investment income 7,002,963  6,828,582
Long-term investments (Note 7) 82,003,781  68,433,310
GMSP long-term investments (Note 8) 858,667,192  835,954,995
Furniture, fixtures and equipment, net (Note 10) 3,604,955  3,519,860
Collections (Note 11) 6,929,250  6,929,250
Other assets 2,552,272  3,052,137
Total assets 1,031,081,381  990,774,073
Liabilities and Net Assets
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $5,756,660  $4,166,940
Accrued wages, vacation and other related personnel expenses 3,857,030  3,742,459
Payable for unsettled investment trades (Notes 7 and 8) 388,561  65,871
Accrued distributions to member institutions 3,618,724  5,608,101
Refundable advances from donor (Note 12) 537,299,687  590,059,446
Note payable (Note 13) 2,389,039  2,928,634
Total liabilities 553,309,701  606,571,451
Commitments and contingencies (Note 20)
Net assets
Unrestricted: 
Undesignated 206,067  (1,598,889)
Board designated - scholarships 3,600,670  2,992,762
Board designated - capital projects 8,435,780  7,080,917
Total unrestricted 12,242,517  8,474,790
Temporarily restricted - program services (Note 14) 411,888,450  324,394,312
Permanently restricted - endowment funds (Note 15) 53,640,713  51,333,520
Total net assets 477,771,680  384,202,622
Total liabilities and net assets $1,031,081,381  $990,774,073
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 49
Statements of Activities
For the year ended March 31, 2010 (with summarized financial information for 2009)
ENDED MARCH 31, 2010 2009
 Temporarily Permanently
 Unrestricted Restricted Restricted Total Total
Revenue, Gains and Other Support
Support:
Contributions for grants and scholarships -  $102,315,991  $250,080  $102,566,071  $95,747,291
Contributions and gifts $27,653,931  2,950,686  -  30,604,617  41,547,395
Bequests and legacies 6,502,227  -  2,057,113  8,559,340  7,291,454
Gifts-in-kind and donated services (Note 17) 1,956,078  2,367,817  -  4,323,895  9,658,861
Total support 36,112,236  107,634,494  2,307,193  146,053,923  154,245,001
Investment income:
Interest and dividends 185,239  26,768,913  -  26,954,152  22,496,674
Net unrealized and realized gains (losses) 3,372,111  50,846,340  -  54,218,451  (74,995,046)
Amortization of investment premium and discount -  15,021,577  -  15,021,577  18,744,978
Total investment income (loss) 3,557,350  92,636,830  -  96,194,180  (33,753,394)
Net assets released from restrictions:
Satisfaction of time and program restrictions 112,777,186  (112,777,186) -  -  -
Total revenue, gains, and other support  152,446,772  87,494,138  2,307,193  242,248,103  120,491,607
Expenses 
Program services:
GMSP  75,983,257  -  -  75,983,257  72,405,509
Scholarships and special projects 30,779,225  -  -  30,779,225  29,289,062
Distributions to member institutions 12,513,029  -  -  12,513,029  20,048,723
Other program services 5,707,398  -  -  5,707,398  4,703,187
Institutional services 1,498,124  -  -  1,498,124  1,216,174
Total program services 126,481,033  -  -  126,481,033  127,662,655
Supporting services:
Management and general 12,812,628  -  -  12,812,628  13,030,462
Fund-raising 9,385,384  -  -  9,385,384  9,086,906
Total supporting services 22,198,012  -  -  22,198,012  22,117,368
Total expenses 148,679,045  -  -  148,679,045  149,780,023
Change in net assets 3,767,727  87,494,138  2,307,193  93,569,058  (29,288,416)
Net assets, beginning of year, as previously reported 9,372,770  323,496,332  51,333,520  384,202,622  413,491,038
Transfers (Note 14) (897,980) 897,980  -  -  -
Net assets, beginning of year, as restated 8,474,790  324,394,312  51,333,520  384,202,622  413,491,038
Net assets, end of year $12,242,517  $411,888,450  $53,640,713  $477,771,680  $384,202,622
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
50 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Statements of Functional Expenses
For the year ended March 31, 2010 (with summarized financial information for 2009)
 Program Services - Assistance to Member and Non-member Institutions
 Scholarships Distributions Other  Total
 and Special to Member Program  Institutional Program
 GMSP Projects Institutions Services Services Services
Distributions
Capital and operational support -  -  $11,738,869  -  -  $11,738,869
Distributions in-kind -  -  774,160  -  -  774,160
Grants and scholarships $68,485,041  $24,369,242  -  $7,508  -  92,861,791
Total distributions 68,485,041  24,369,242  12,513,029  7,508  -  105,374,820
Expenses before depreciation, amortization and bad debts
Salaries and wages 1,676,695  898,708  -  417,552  $913,900  3,906,855
Employee benefits 474,410  245,286  -  125,555  251,316  1,096,567
Advertisements and promotions 34,502  616,488  -  837,346  2,091  1,490,427
Professional fees 1,684,835  969,493  -  214,368  282,625  3,151,321
Contractual consultants 66,136  836,374  -  67,762  -  970,272
Office expenses 38,948  6,149  -  4,710  78  49,885
Telephone 65,075  10,001  -  16,455  3,323  94,854
Postage and shipping 97,767  36,135  -  8,094  243  142,239
Occupancy 196,427  63,571  -  19,972  -  279,970
Printing and publications 368,325  142,162  -  94,674  20,420  625,581
Travel 1,336,237  721,771  -  276,096  17,963  2,352,067
Meetings 936,119  488,665  -  246,765  6,165  1,677,714
Equipment rental 22,644  18,834  -  3,816  -  45,294
Equipment maintenance 2,416  431  -  158  -  3,005
Interest expense -  -  -  -  -  -
Administrative support 367,242  1,087,670  -  -  -  1,454,912
Air time, production and support -  -  -  3,366,567  -  3,366,567
Total expenses before depreciation, amortization
and bad debts  75,852,819  30,510,980  12,513,029  5,707,398  1,498,124  126,082,350
Depreciation and amortization expense 130,438  -  -  -  -  130,438
Bad debt expense -  268,245  -  -  -  268,245
Total expenses $75,983,257  $30,779,225  $12,513,029  $5,707,398  $1,498,124  $126,481,033
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 51
Statements of Functional Expenses (continued)
For the year ended March 31, 2010 (with summarized financial information for 2009)
 Total Program Services and
 Supporting Services Supporting Services Expenses
 Management Total Supporting
 and General Fund-Raising Services 2010 2009
Distributions
Capital and operational support -  -  -  $11,738,869  $19,232,486
Distributions in-kind -  -  -  774,160  3,319,067
Grants and scholarships -  -  -  92,861,791  85,803,212
Total distributions -  -  -  105,374,820  108,354,765
Expenses before depreciation, amortization and bad debts
Salaries and wages $3,777,969  $4,837,032  $8,615,001  12,521,856  12,317,743
Employee benefits 1,202,521  1,412,208  2,614,729  3,711,296  3,371,746
Advertisements and promotions 791,779  325,453  1,117,232  2,607,659  1,129,492
Professional fees 4,092,702  195,399  4,288,101  7,439,422  6,086,069
Contractual consultants 390,275  51,838  442,113  1,412,385  874,364
Office expenses 69,259  59,527  128,786  178,671  212,018
Telephone 276,952  77,235  354,187  449,041  336,232
Postage and shipping 114,352  44,895  159,247  301,486  233,854
Occupancy 960,653  637,619  1,598,272  1,878,242  1,858,420
Printing and publications 122,310  211,317  333,627  959,208  886,043
Travel 189,813  478,613  668,426  3,020,493  2,797,032
Meetings 122,178  69,042  191,220  1,868,934  1,126,282
Equipment rental 230,198  144,790  374,988  420,282  513,130
Equipment maintenance 102,582  24,149  126,731  129,736  296,486
Interest expense 45,065  -  45,065  45,065  42,110
Administrative support -  -  -  1,454,912  1,464,849
Air time, production and support -  538,100  538,100  3,904,667  3,928,749
Total expenses before depreciation, amortization and bad debts  12,488,608  9,107,217  21,595,825  147,678,175  145,829,384
Depreciation and amortization expense 278,149  278,167  556,316  686,754  980,676
Bad debt expense 45,871  -  45,871  314,116  2,969,963
Total expenses $12,812,628  $9,385,384  $22,198,012  $148,679,045  $149,780,023
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
52 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Statements of Cash Flows
YEAR ENDING MARCH 31, 2010 2009
Cash flows from operating activities
Change in net assets $93,569,058  $(29,288,416)
Adjustments to reconcile change in net assets to net cash used in operating activities:
Net unrealized and realized (gains) losses on investments (54,218,451) 74,995,046
Amortization of investment premium and discount (15,021,577) (18,744,978)
Bad debts 314,116  2,969,963
Depreciation and amortization 686,754  980,676
Usage of gifts-in-kind and donated services 1,212,299  (589,456)
Gifts of collection items -  (6,929,250)
Contributions restricted for investment in endowment funds (2,307,193) (2,104,105)
(Increase) decrease in assets:
Pledges receivable 7,678,360  11,230,945
Accrued investment income (174,381) (818,943)
Other assets (712,434) 1,457,086
Increase (decrease) in liabilities:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 1,589,720  (2,134,526)
Cash overdraft liability -  (1,558,414)
Accrued wages, vacation and other related personnel expenses 114,571  (551,029)
Accrued distributions to member institutions (1,989,377) (2,309,860)
Refundable advances from donor (52,759,759) (49,380,774)
Net cash used in operating activities (22,018,294) (22,776,035)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of investments  (2,192,442,199) (4,359,138,336)
Proceeds from sales of investments 2,209,552,690  4,390,270,982
Purchases of furniture, fixtures and equipment (771,849) (2,321,102)
Net cash provided by investing activities 16,338,642  28,811,544
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from line of credit borrowing 2,000,000  -
Repayments of line of credit (2,000,000) -
Proceeds from note payable borrowing -  3,000,000
Repayments of note payable (539,595) (71,366)
Contributions restricted for investment in endowment funds 2,307,193  2,104,105
Net cash provided by financing activities 1,767,598  5,032,739
(Decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (3,912,054) 11,068,248
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 13,860,548  2,792,300
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year $9,948,494  $13,860,548
 See accompanying notes to financial statements.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 53
1. Organization
The United Negro College Fund, Inc. (UNCF) is organized as a not-for-profit
entity established to assist its 39 current member institutions of higher
education to raise funds from the public for their mutual support. Member
institutions participate in both the regular and capital campaigns.
All participating member institutions receive distributions of unrestricted
support and revenues, net of expenses, pursuant to a formula. Support
and revenue, net of expenses, raised in accordance with joint campaign
agreements, is distributed 75 percent to the member institutions conducting
the campaign. The remaining 25 percent is included in the regular campaign
formula distribution to all member institutions.
In addition, UNCF administers grants, scholarships and other programs
benefiting students, member institutions and non-member institutions,
based on donor stipulations.
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Codification -- The FASB
issued Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 105, Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles, which became the single source of
authoritative nongovernmental U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) recognized by FASB. The codification is effective for interim or annual
financial periods ending after September 15, 2009. The accompanying
financial statements of UNCF include references to the codification.
Basis of Accounting -- The accompanying financial statements of UNCF
are presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America and have been prepared on the accrual
basis of accounting.
Cash and Cash Equivalents -- Cash and cash equivalents are liquid
investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of three months
or less and consist primarily of money market funds and repurchase
agreements used for overnight investment purposes. All other highly liquid
instruments, which are to be used for the long-term purposes of UNCF, are
classified as investments. Cash and cash equivalents are valued at their
carrying amount which approximates fair value due to their short maturities.
Investments -- Investments are reported at fair value based on quoted
market prices or, in the case of alternative investments, at estimated values
provided by the fund managers or general partners based on quoted market
prices, if available, or other valuation methods. Investments classified as
short-term are available for operations in the next fiscal year. The cost
assigned to investments received by gift is the fair value at the date the gift
is received. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are included in the
accompanying statements of activities.
Investment earnings are reported net of related expenses, such as custodial,
commission and investment advisory fees. Such expenses amounted to
$1,899,631 and $2,308,381 in fiscal years 2010, and 2009, respectively.
Pledges Receivable -- Pledges receivable consist primarily of amounts
due from unconditional promises to give by various donors. Unconditional
promises to give that are expected to be collected in future years are
recorded at the present value of their estimated future cash flows.
The discounts on those amounts are computed using risk free interest
rates applicable to the years in which the promises to give are received.
Amortization of the discounts is included in contributions and gifts revenue.
An allowance for uncollectible pledges receivable is provided based on
management's judgment, including such factors as prior collection history,
type of contribution and nature of fund-raising activity. At March 31, 2010,
and 2009, UNCF had an allowance for uncollectible pledges of $262,851 and
$273,873, respectively.
Notes to Financial Statements
54 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Conditional pledges receivable are not included as support until the
conditions are substantially met. As of March 31, 2010, and 2009, UNCF had
received conditional promises to give totaling approximately $1,859,000 and
$633,000, respectively.
Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment -- Furniture, fixtures, and equipment
are recorded at cost, or if donated, such assets are capitalized at the
estimated fair value at the date of receipt. Depreciation is computed using
the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from three to
10 years. Lease-hold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the
remaining life of the lease or the estimated useful life of the improvements.
UNCF capitalizes all acquisitions of furniture, fixtures and equipment over
$2,500 and when assets are sold or disposed of, the cost and corresponding
accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from the accounts
with any gain or loss recognized currently. Expenditures for repairs and
maintenance are charged to expense as incurred.
Capitalized Software -- Certain costs to develop or obtain internal use
software are capitalized in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350-40,
Accounting for the Costs of Software for Internal Use (previously known as
Statement of Position (SOP) No. 98-1, Accounting for Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use).
Collection Items Acquired on or after April 1, 2008 -- Accessions of
collection items are capitalized at cost, if the items are purchased, or at
their fair value on the accession date, if the items were contributed. Gains or
losses from deaccessions of these items are reflected in the accompanying
statements of activities as changes in the appropriate net asset classes,
depending on the existence and type of donor-imposed restrictions.
Distributions to Member Institutions -- UNCF accrues expenses due to
member institutions and, occasionally, non-member institutions of higher
education up to the amount by which support and collections of pledges,
including the values attributed to gifts-in-kind, exceeds program, fund-
raising and administrative expenses. Regular distributions are made
three times a year and other distributions, such as capital campaign and
designated gifts, are made on an on-going basis. Current-year distributions
may also include amounts from net assets designated for distribution.
Refundable Advances from Donor -- Refundable advances from donor
result from contributions received for the Gates Millennium Scholars
Program (GMSP) that, based on terms of the agreement, including the
grantor's ability to cancel the grant at any time, result in program funds
being received prior to recognition of the corresponding revenue. The
amounts are recognized as revenue in the period for when the grant
conditions are met.
Unrestricted Net Assets -- Unrestricted net assets consist of undesignated
and designated net assets and include gifts, grants, investment income or
other resources where donors have not specified any purpose for which
such resources are to be used. Undesignated net assets are funds that
are currently available to support UNCF's daily operations. Designated net
assets consist of unrestricted funds designated by the board of directors for
scholarships and capital projects.
Temporarily Restricted Net Assets -- Temporarily restricted net assets
include gifts, grants, investment income or other resources where donors
have specified the purposes and/or the time for which such resources are
to be used, generally for capital development and scholarships. Accordingly,
distributions of available resources accrue to member institutions only
when donor restrictions are met, or in the case of capital campaign receipts,
when the terms of the campaign program have been met. When a time and/
or purpose restriction expires or is met, temporarily restricted net assets
are reclassified to unrestricted net assets and reported in the accompanying
statements of activities as net assets released from restrictions.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 55
Temporarily restricted contributions and gifts whose restrictions expire
in the same year of receipt are classified as unrestricted revenues in the
accompanying statements of activities.
Permanently Restricted Net Assets -- Permanently restricted net assets
include gifts and bequests where donors have stipulated that the principal
be maintained intact. These gifts are invested by UNCF's management.
Generally, there have been no permanent restrictions placed upon UNCF's
investment earnings. However, the majority of the earnings are specified
by the donors to support scholarships or program development. Net gains
with no permanent restrictions and that are not specified by the donors to
support scholarships or program development may be retained at the Board
of Directors' discretion as reserves for future distribution equalization.
Endowment Net Asset Classifications -- In August 2008, FASB issued
ASC Topic 958-205, Reporting Endowment Funds (previously known as
Staff Position No. 117-1, Endowments of Not-for-Profit Organizations: Net
Asset Classification of Funds Subject to an Enacted Version of the Uniform
Prudent Management of Institutional Funds Act and Enhanced Disclosures
for All Endowment Funds). FASB Topic ASC 958-205 provides guidance on
the net asset classification of donor-restricted endowment funds for a not-
for-profit organization that is subject to an enacted version of the Uniform
Prudent Management of Institutional Funds Act (UPMIFA).
UNCF is subject to the State of New York's UPMIFA and has adopted FASB
Topic ASC 958-205 as of April 1, 2008, as required. UNCF has interpreted the
State of New York's UPMIFA as requiring the preservation of the fair value
of the original gift as of the gift date of the donor-restricted endowment
funds absent explicit donor stipulations to the contrary. As a result of this
interpretation, UNCF classifies as permanently restricted net assets (a)
the original value of gifts donated to the permanent endowment and (b) the
original value of subsequent gifts to the permanent endowment. Further,
during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, UNCF reviewed all endowment
funds and transferred to temporarily restricted net assets those that are
subject to UPMIFA that were previously classified as unrestricted.
The associated gains and income on donor-restricted endowment funds
are classified as temporarily restricted net assets until those amounts are
appropriated for expenditure by UNCF in a manner consistent with the
standard of prudence prescribed by UPMIFA. In accordance with UPMIFA,
UNCF considers the following factors in making a determination to
appropriate or accumulate donor-restricted endowment funds:
(1) The duration and preservation of UNCF.
(2)The purposes for which UNCF will appropriate funds from the
donor-restricted endowment fund.
(3)General economic conditions.
(4)The possible effect of inflation and deflation.
(5)The expected total return from income and the appreciation
of investments.
(6)Other resources of UNCF.
(7)The investment policies of UNCF.
From time to time, the fair value of assets associated with individual donor-
restricted endowment funds may fall below the level that the donor or
UPMIFA requires UNCF to retain as a fund of perpetual duration. UNCF had
no deficiencies of its restricted net assets at March 31, 2010, and 2009.
Endowment Investment and Spending Policies -- Endowment assets
include those assets of donor-restricted funds that UNCF must hold in
perpetuity or for a donor-specified period. UNCF has adopted investment
and spending polices for endowment assets that attempt to provide a
predictable stream of funding to programs supported by its endowments.
Preservation of capital is foremost, followed by preservation of purchasing
power and growth of assets. The investment policy establishes an achievable
return objective through diversification of asset classes. The current long-
term return objective is to attain an average annual real return (net of
investment and management fees) of five percent above the Consumer Price
Index (CPI). It is recognized that the real return objective will be difficult to
attain in every period, but it should be attainable over the long-term.
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
56 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
To satisfy its long-term rate-of-return objectives, UNCF relies on a total
return strategy in which investment returns are achieved through both
capital appreciation (realized and unrealized) and current yield (interest and
dividends). UNCF targets a diversified asset allocation that places a greater
emphasis on equity-based investments to achieve its long-term return
objectives within prudent risk parameters.
UNCF's fiscal policy governs the use of resources in the various endowed
funds for program expenses and administrative costs. Endowment funds
are used for the specified purposes, or over the specified time period,
designated by the donors. The amount of endowment funds available for
use is based on the realized and unrealized cumulative investment income
gains and losses in excess of the respective endowment's principal balance
multiplied by five percent of the average three-year market value.
These funds are used, with respect to any endowment restrictions, to
support new initiatives or new one-time or short-term (two to three years)
activities, subject to the submission of a business plan that has been
reviewed and endorsed by executive management and approved by UNCF's
board of directors. Once approval of an initiative or activity is obtained from
the board of directors, the use of the endowment funds is incorporated
into the operating budget process and distributions are based on the
budgeted amounts.
Revenue Recognition -- Revenue is recognized during the period in which it
is earned. Revenue received in advance and not yet earned is deferred to the
applicable period.
Donated Services -- The value of certain services provided to and/or paid on
behalf of UNCF's programs that are susceptible to objective measurement or
valuation have been reflected in the financial statements (see Note 17).
Additionally, a substantial number of volunteers have donated significant
amounts of time to UNCF's program services and to its fund-raising
campaigns. Although the value of these services is significant, UNCF does
not record such value in its financial statements since the criteria for
recognition is not met in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 958-605-25,
Not-For-Profit Entities--Revenue Recognition (previously known as
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 116, Accounting for
Contributions Received and Contributions Made).
Expenses -- Expenses are recognized by UNCF during the period in which
they are incurred. Expenses paid in advance and not yet incurred are
deferred to the applicable period.
Functional Allocation of Expenses -- The costs of providing various
programs and supporting services have been summarized on a functional
basis in the accompanying statements of activities. Accordingly, certain costs
have been allocated among the programs and supporting services benefited.
Use of Estimates -- The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Financial Instruments and Credit Risk -- Financial instruments which
potentially subject UNCF to concentrations of credit risk consist principally
of investments, pledges receivable and certain revenue sources. UNCF
places its investments at creditworthy financial institutions. By policy, these
investments are kept within authorized limits designed to prevent risks
caused by concentration.
Credit risk with respect to pledges receivable is generally limited, except
as follows, because UNCF deals with a large number of donors and has
maintained long-term relationships with these donors. At March 31, 2010,
and 2009, approximately 16 percent and 31 percent of pledges receivable,
respectively, were from a single corporate donor.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 57
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
There is a concentration of credit risk associated with recognition of
revenues under the GMSP. Approximately 83 percent and 85 percent of
UNCF's contributions revenue for scholarship purposes for fiscal years
2010, and 2009, respectively, was received from the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation. Based on conditions placed in the restated grant agreement
with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, funding is not recorded in the
year received, but rather as a liability (refundable advances from donor) with
revenue recognized in the year in which the conditions are met. At March 31,
2010, and 2009, refundable advances were $537,299,687 and $590,059,446,
respectively and related investments totaled $881,468,228 and $846,523,607,
respectively (also see Note 12).
As of March 31, 2010, UNCF had no other significant concentration of credit
risk, except as described in Note 4.
Fair Value Measurements -- UNCF adopted FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures (previously known as SFAS No. 157, Fair
Value Measurements) on April 1, 2008. The adoption did not impact the
amounts reported in the financial statements, but does require additional
footnote disclosures about the inputs used to develop the measurements
of fair value and the effect of certain measurements reported in the
accompanying statements of activities and as described in Note 9.
Reclassification -- Certain amounts in the 2009 financial statements have
been reclassified to conform to the 2010 presentation.
Summarized Financial Information for 2009 -- The accompanying financial
statements include certain prior year summarized comparative information
in total but not by net asset class. Such information does not include
sufficient detail to constitute a presentation in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Accordingly,
such information should be read in conjunction with UNCF's financial
statements for the year ended March 31, 2009, from which the summarized
information was derived.
3. Income Taxes
UNCF has been granted exemption by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
from federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. The IRS has also determined that UNCF is not a private foundation.
UNCF is required to report and pay taxes on unrelated business income to
the IRS and other local jurisdictions. There was no liability for unrelated
business income taxes as of March 31, 2010, and 2009.
Additionally, on April 1, 2009, UNCF adopted the provisions of FASB ASC
Topic 740-10, Income Taxes (previously known as FASB Interpretation No.
48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes). Management believes it
has no material uncertain tax positions or any related penalties and interest
to accrue for the year ended March 31, 2010, and, accordingly, there is no
liability for unrecognized tax benefits.
UNCF files IRS Form 990 annually with the federal government and is still
open to examination by taxing authorities for fiscal year 2007 and later.
4. Uninsured Cash Balances
UNCF places its cash and cash equivalents with high-credit-quality financial
institutions that are federally insured for $250,000 and for $500,000 under
the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation Act and the Securities
Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), respectively. Amounts held in
excess of the FDIC limits were $9,698,494 and $13,610,548 at March 31,
2010, and 2009, respectively. Amounts held in excess of the SIPC limits
were $9,448,494 and $13,360,548 at March 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
UNCF has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not
exposed to any significant credit risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
58 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
5. Short-Term Investments
Short-term investments are held, invested and managed by UNCF,
subject to guidelines established by UNCF, UNCF GMSP and its respective
investment committees. Short-term investments, at fair value, consist of the
following at March 31:
2010
 UNCFGMSP
Money market funds $27,371,976 $22,801,036
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper
and other short-term investments 683,779 -
Total $28,055,755 $22,801,036

2009
 UNCFGMSP
Money market funds $23,642,069 $10,568,612
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper
and other short-term investments 702,047 -
Total $24,344,116 $10,568,612
6. Pledges Receivable
Pledges receivable consist of the following at March 31:
 2010 2009
Unconditional promises to give before unamortized
discount and allowance for uncollectible amounts $9,404,242 $17,521,863
Less: unamortized discount  25,135 139,258
Less: allowance for uncollectible amounts 262,851 273,873
Net unconditional promises to give $9,116,256 $17,108,732
Pledges receivable are discounted using the Federal Discount Rate at the
date the pledge is made. The interest rates used in computing the discount
of the estimated future cash flows range from 0.16 percent to 5.25 percent.
The discount will be recognized as contributions and gifts income in fiscal
years 2011 through 2013 as the discount is amortized using an effective yield
over the duration of the contributions.
The expected future cash receipts for UNCF are as follows:
 2010 2009
Amounts due in:
Less than one year $7,984,657 $12,050,229
One to five years 1,419,585 5,471,634
Pledges receivable before discount and allowance $9,404,242 $17,521,863
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 59
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
7. Long-Term Investments
Investments held for long-term purposes and at fair value consist of the
following at March 31:
 2010 2009
Fixed income $15,919,540 $19,014,320
U.S. and global equities 32,463,020 21,290,472
Portfolio cash  1,205,435 3,115,045
Hedge funds  20,108,309 17,967,445
Designated equities  3,912,314 2,960,715
Private equities 8,395,163 4,085,313
Total investments held for long-term purposes  82,003,781 68,433,310
Receivable for unsettled investment trades 11,372 24,681
Payable for unsettled investment trades (66,686) (65,871)
Total investments held for long-term
purposes - net of receivable and payable for
unsettled investment trades $81,948,467 $68,392,120
UNCF's investments are accounted for on the trade date. Consequently,
there are receivables and payables for unsettled trades at March 31,
2010, and 2009. These investment receivables and payables are reported
separately in the accompanying statements of financial position.
Investments held for long-term purposes include investments for which
the board of directors and member institutions have earmarked the
proceeds from the liquidation of such investments to be utilized primarily for
distribution equalization in low-income years and endowment funds for which
donors have stipulated that the principal remain intact. Investments in various
funds held in fixed income, U.S. and global equities, hedge funds and private
equities are valued based on UNCF's share of net assets in the underlying
investment portfolios. The underlying investment portfolios are valued by the
respective investment managers at quoted market prices or estimated fair
values for positions for which there is a limited market. Management reviews
and evaluates the values provided by the fund managers and general partners
and agrees with the valuation methods and assumptions used in determining
the fair value of these alternative investments.
Due to the inherent uncertainties of these estimates, these values may differ
from the values that would have been reported had a ready market for such
investments existed. Additionally, UNCF's hedge fund and private equity
investments were out of the mandatory lock-up periods. Approximately
$6,700,000 million is in a lock-up of one year or less and approximately
$4,200,000 is in a lock-up of greater than two years. UNCF also has
outstanding funding commitments, based on terms of the underlying
investment agreements, amounting to approximately $4,500,000.
8. GMSP Long-Term Investments
Investments in this portfolio are all fixed income securities, are held for
long-term purposes and at fair value, and are composed of the following at
March 31:
 2010 2009
U.S. government securities $364,691,530 $349,132,174
Residential mortgage-backed securities 14,573,844 14,290,897
Commercial mortgage-backed securities 2,859,686 2,952,925
Asset-backed securities 3,045,302 10,040,127
Corporate debt securities 452,215,562 441,031,446
Municipal debt securities 11,616,849 12,383,872
Cash and cash equivalents 9,664,419 6,123,554
Total investments held for long-term purposes 858,667,192 835,954,995
Receivable for unsettled investment trades 388,055 149,250
Payable for unsettled investment trades (321,875) -
Total investments held for long-term
purposes - net of receivable and payable for
unsettled investment trades $858,733,372 $836,104,245
60 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
As a dedicated defeasance portfolio, all of these securities have definite
stated maturities and predictable cash flows. GMSP long-term investments
are accounted for based on the trade date. Consequently, there are
receivables and payables for unsettled trades at March 31, 2010, and 2009.
These investment receivables and payables are reported separately in the
accompanying statements of financial position.
9. Fair Value Measurements
The fair market value of a financial instrument is defined in FASB ASC
Topic 825, Financial Instruments (previously known as SFAS No. 107,
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments) as "the amount at
which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between
willing parties."
The carrying amounts reported in the accompanying statements of
financial position for short-term investments, pledges receivable, accrued
investment income, accounts payable and accrued expenses and notes
payable, approximate fair value given the short-term nature of the financial
instruments or conversely based a non-recurring assessment of fair value.
As indicated in Note 2, UNCF adopted FASB ASC Topic 820 on April 1, 2008.
There were no financial instruments for which a retrospective application of
fair value measurement was required. Therefore, the effect of adopting the
provisions of FASB ASC Topic 820 is prospective from the beginning of the year.
The following methods and assumptions were used by UNCF in estimating
the fair value of other financial instruments, which consist of investments. As
defined in FASB ASC Topic 820, fair value is the price that would be received
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). UNCF
utilizes market data or assumptions that market participants would use in
pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks
inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily
observable, market corroborated or generally unobservable. UNCF primarily
applies the market approach for recurring fair value measurements and
endeavors to utilize the best available information. Accordingly, UNCF
utilizes valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and
minimize the use of unobservable inputs. UNCF is able to classify fair value
balances based on the observability of those inputs.
UNCF's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value
measurements requires judgment and may affect the valuation of fair value
of assets and liabilities and their placement within the fair value hierarchy
levels. Also, the time between inception and performance of the contract
may affect the fair value. The determination of fair value may, therefore,
affect the timing of recognition of revenues and change in net assets.
FASB ASC Topic 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that gives the highest
priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to measurements
involving significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three
levels of fair value hierarchy are as follows:
Level 1 Inputs: Valuation based on quoted prices in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities that a reporting entity has the ability to access
at the measurement date and where transactions occur with sufficient
frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an on-going basis.
Level 2 Inputs: Valuation based on inputs other than quoted prices included
within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly
or indirectly. Inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in
active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities
in markets that are not active, that is markets in which there are few
transactions, prices are not current or prices vary substantially over time.
Level 3 Inputs: Valuation based on inputs that are unobservable for an asset or
liability and shall be used to measure fair value to the extent that observable
inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if
any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. This input
therefore reflects UNCF's assumptions about what market participants would
use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 61
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
available in the circumstances. This classification does not imply a lack of
liquidity of the investment. UNCF has a target allocation of approximately
eight percent for private equities. Further, 61 percent of the UNCF long-term
portfolio has monthly or better liquidity while approximately 32 percent of this
portfolio has quarterly liquidity. UNCF carefully monitors these positions as it
conducts periodic reviews of both asset allocation and performance.
All short-term investments (see Note 5) and investments of GMSP (see Note
8) qualified as Level 1 investments under the FASB ASC Topic 820 hierarchy.
The following table presents UNCF's other long-term investments (see Note
7) that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2010:
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010 Totals
Investments:
Fixed income $8,352,396 - $7,567,144 $15,919,540
U.S. and global equities 25,871,684 - 6,591,336 32,463,020
Portfolio cash  1,205,435 - - 1,205,435
Hedge funds  - - 20,108,309 20,108,309
Designated equities 3,912,314 - - 3,912,314
Private equities - - 8,395,163 8,395,163
Total $39,341,829 - $42,661,952 $82,003,781
The following table presents UNCF's other long-term investments (see Note
7) that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2009:
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2009 Totals
Investments:
Fixed income $19,014,320 - - $19,014,320
U.S. and global equities 21,290,472 - - 21,290,472
Portfolio cash  3,115,045 - - 3,115,045
Hedge funds  - - 17,967,445 17,967,445
Designated equities 2,960,715 - - 2,960,715
Private equities - - 4,085,313 4,085,313
Total $46,380,552 - $22,052,758 $68,433,310
The following table presents UNCF's activity for assets measured at fair
value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)
as defined in FASB ASC Topic 820 for the years ended March 31, 2010, and
2009, respectively:
 2010 2009
Beginning balance $22,052,758 $26,838,300
Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) 5,823,116 (5,355,942)
Net purchases, sales, issuances and settlements 11,863,915 570,400
Net transfers in and out of Level 3 2,922,163 -
 $42,661,952 $22,052,758
10. Furniture, Fixtures, and Equipment
Furniture, fixtures and equipment utilized at national headquarters and
regional field offices are summarized as follows:
 2010 2009
Furniture and fixtures $2,094,128 $2,094,128
Leasehold improvements 286,438 286,438
Computers and equipment 5,492,481 3,156,155
Construction in process 555,263 2,119,740
Total furniture, fixtures and equipment 8,428,310 7,656,461
Less: accumulated depreciation/amortization (4,823,355) (4,136,601)
 $3,604,955 $3,519,860
During fiscal year 2009, UNCF received approval from its board of directors
to secure $3 million in financing to support an investment in a new
enterprise-wide donor and financial management software system in an
effort to gain efficiencies in its operating environment. Accordingly, expenses
related to this endeavor were capitalized in accordance with FASB ASC Topic
350-40 and reflected as construction in process at March 31, 2009.
62 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
During fiscal year 2010, the system became largely operational and
therefore those related capitalized costs amounting to $2,172,966 have been
transferred to computers and equipment and will be depreciated over the
assigned three-year life.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended March 31, 2010,
and 2009 was $686,754 and $980,676, respectively.
11. Collections
UNCF's collection items amounting to $6,929,250, consisted of donated
works of art as received from the Estate of Benny Andrews Foundation, Inc.
UNCF maintains this art collection within a secure museum setting and will
distribute the artwork to member colleges and other entities in accordance
with the donor's intent. An independent appraisal was used to measure the
fair value at date of gift.
12. Refundable Advances from Donor
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2000, UNCF received a grant from
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (the Foundation) for $1 billion over
a 20-year period or approximately $50 million per year to administer the
GMSP. The purpose of the grant is to provide scholarships, fellowships and
leadership opportunities for approximately 20,000 outstanding low-income
African American, Native American, Hispanic American and Asian American
students to attend the undergraduate and graduate educational institutions
of their choice. This grant is conditioned on UNCF's successful annual
administration of GMSP as determined by the administration agreement and
the Foundation.
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004, the original grant agreement
was restated to increase the grant amount by $42,000,000 and eliminate the
previous arrangement of annual installments, replacing it with a lump-sum
payment and a series of annual payments. The cumulative payments through
March 31, 2005, were $1,042,000,000.
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, the Foundation approved
enhancements to the original program and awarded GMSP an additional
amount not to exceed $58,003,043, of which $35 million was received
during fiscal year 2006. The balance of $23,003,043 was received during
the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. An additional enhancement grant of
$10,681,794 to support early outreach, male initiative, alumni development
and other leadership initiatives was awarded and received as of the fiscal
year ended March 31, 2007. Cumulative enhancement grant payments
through March 31, 2007, were $68,684,837.
Additionally, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, the original cost
estimates for GMSP were evaluated, and it was determined that additional
funding would be required in order for GMSP to achieve its original objectives.
Consequently, the Foundation agreed to provide additional funding up to a
maximum of $472,699,156, of which $31,798,776 was received during the
fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
The payment dates and amounts of future installments will be determined
by the Foundation in collaboration with UNCF provided the Foundation will
provide UNCF with no less than 30 days prior written notice of the date and
amount of each disbursement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final
disbursement will occur on or before December 31, 2016.
The cumulative payments received through March 31, 2010, which includes
$31,798,776 received during fiscal year 2010, total $1,259,282,389 with
additional future funding not to exceed $324,101,604.
GMSP funds are invested and held in separate investment accounts by
UNCF, and all investment gains and losses and interest and dividends
earned are restricted for the purpose of the grant (see Note 8).
In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 958-605-25, revenue recognition is
based on the unconditional/conditional promise to give. The restated grant
agreement requires UNCF to abide by specific performance metrics. In any
case for which performance metrics are not met, the grant agreement may
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 63
be terminated, and any unspent funds, including the accumulated returns
on invested assets, will be returned to the Foundation.
In addition, the agreement also outlines general conditions that stipulate (1)
in the event of a modification, enlargement, frustration or the impossibility
of achieving the purposes of the grant agreement and/or (2) UNCF's
continued failure to perform any of its duties under the restated grant
agreement and/or (3) UNCF's failure to submit an acceptable annual budget
and/or (4) a significant leadership or other material change that may
adversely threaten the administration and success of GMSP, the Foundation
has the discretion to cancel the grant agreement, suspend any further
payments outstanding under the grant agreement, and/or require that any
portion of the funds, including the accumulated returns on invested assets,
that were distributed but unexpended to be repaid or transferred to another
administrator.
Due to the conditions placed in the restated grant agreement, the funding
is treated as a conditional promise to give. Therefore, the funding received
will not be recorded as revenue in the year received, but rather as a liability
(refundable grant advances) with revenue being recognized in the year in
which the conditions are met. Returns on GMSP investments are recognized
as revenue and an increase in temporarily restricted net assets in the period
such returns are generated by the underlying investments.
For the years ended March 31, 2010, and 2009, the following amounts have
been received and recognized:
 2010 2009
Beginning balance $590,059,446 $639,440,220
Receipts 31,798,776 31,798,776
Less: income (approved 2009-2010, and
2008-2009 budgets, respectively)  84,558,535 81,179,550
 $537,299,687 $590,059,446
13. Line of Credit and Note Payable
Line of Credit
In May 2008, after receiving formal board of directors' authorization, UNCF
established a $10 million revolving line of credit (LOC) with its master
custodian bank, JP Morgan Chase N.A.
The interest rate on this LOC is variable and based on a spread of 100
basis points over the applicable London Inter Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
The original LOC expired on May 31, 2009, but has been extended through
November 2010. It was also re-negotiated to $5 million and re-set based
on a November one-year cycle subject to no material changes in UNCF's
financial condition.
There was no balance outstanding on this LOC as of March 31, 2010, and 2009.
Note Payable
In January 2009, UNCF entered into a $3 million master lease agreement
with Chase Equipment Leasing, Inc., for a term of 60 months at an interest
rate of 6.06 percent per annum to finance its investment in a new enterprise-
wide donor and financial management software system (see Note 10).
Under the terms, UNCF is required to make fixed monthly installment
payments of $58,082. Unspent funds from this project were held in a Chase
Equipment Leasing escrow account and were released as required to cover
on-going development costs. At March 31, 2009, UNCF had drawn down the
entire $3 million from the escrow account to cover the initial software and
maintenance costs associated with the new applications.
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
64 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
Following are the scheduled debt service principal payments in the
aggregate:
Year ending March 31,
2011 $578,446
2012 603,867
2013 641,494
2014 565,232
 $2,389,039
14. Temporarily Restricted Net Assets
Temporarily restricted net assets consist of the unspent portion of
temporarily restricted contributions and gifts received by UNCF.
During the year ended March 31, 2010, transfers were made between
unrestricted net assets and temporarily restricted net assets. The transfers
were based on a more accurate understanding of the terms and conditions of
certain sources of income received by UNCF.
These contributions and gifts are available for the following purposes:
 2010 2009
Scholarships and special projects $61,507,351 $60,487,152
GMSP (Note 12) 349,813,341 263,339,402
Health and Human Services 567,758 567,758
 $411,888,450 $324,394,312
Temporarily restricted net assets were released from restrictions for the
following purposes:
 2010 2009
Scholarships and special projects  $36,793,929 $31,436,753
GMSP (Note 12) 75,983,257 72,405,509
 $112,777,186 $103,842,262
15. Permanently Restricted Net Assets
Permanently restricted net assets consist of endowments that are restricted
for investment in perpetuity. The income from these net assets is expendable
to support the following program areas:
 2010 2009
Scholarships $43,094,672 $41,087,479
General endowment support 3,350,713 3,150,713
F.D. Patterson Research Institute 7,195,328 7,095,328
 $53,640,713 $51,333,520
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 65
16. Endowment Net Asset Classifications
UNCF's endowments consist of 148 programs established for the purpose
of funding scholarships. Net assets associated with the endowment funds
are classified and reported based on the existence or absence of donor-
imposed restrictions.
Changes in endowment net assets for the year ended March 31, 2010, are
as follows:
  Board Temporarily Permanently
 Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Total
Net assets,
beginning of year
as previously
reported - $2,518,982 $3,106,884 $51,333,520 $56,959,386
Transfers - 473,780 897,980 - 1,371,760
Net assets, beginning
of year as restated - 2,992,762 4,004,864 51,333,520 58,331,146
Investment return:
Investment income - 43,391 840,842 - 884,233
Net realized and
unrealized gains  - 751,166 14,071,964 - 14,823,130
Total investment return - 794,557 14,912,806 - 15,707,363
Contributions - - 76,805 2,307,193 2,383,998
Appropriation of
endowment income
for expenditure - (186,649)  (5,655,253)  - (5,841,902)
Net assets,end of year - $3,600,670 $13,339,222 $53,640,713 $70,580,605
Changes in endowment net assets for the year ended March 31, 2009, are
as follows:
  Board Temporarily Permanently
 Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Total
Net assets,
beginning of year $1,988,113 $2,931,635 $9,378,628 $49,229,415 $63,527,791
Net assets
reclassification
based on FASB
ASC Topic 958-205(1,988,113) - 1,988,113 - -
Net assets,
after reclassification - 2,931,635 11,366,741 49,229,415 63,527,791
Investment return:
Investment income - 20,202 266,571 - 286,773
Net realized and
unrealized losses - (432,855) (4,348,432) - (4,781,287)
Total investment loss - (412,653) (4,081,861) - (4,494,514)
Contributions - - - 2,104,105 2,104,105
Appropriation of
endowment income
for expenditure - - (4,177,996)  - (4,177,996)
Net assets,
end of year - $2,518,982 $3,106,884 $51,333,520 $56,959,386
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
66 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
17. Gifts-In-Kind and Donated Services
Gifts-in-kind in fiscal years 2010, and 2009 represent contributions of and
promises to give computer hardware, software and works of art (see Note
11) with a fair value of $845,033 and $7,781,485, respectively. Of these
amounts, $774,160 and $3,319,067 were distributed to member institutions
for the years ended March 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively and are included
in program services expenses.
Donated services represent certain specialized services provided to UNCF
for the annual An Evening of Stars(R)
and other UNCF programs and are
comprised of advertising services, legal services and marketing services. For
the years ended March 31, 2010, and 2009, the fair value of these specialized
services amounted to $3,478,862 and $1,877,376, respectively.
18. Other Fund-raising Activities
Contributions
UNCF raised $6,685,843 and $8,910,319 in contributions from special fund
raising events and incurred related direct expenses of $2,520,025 and
$3,157,897 in fiscal years 2010, and 2009, respectively. These amounts are
reported in the accompanying statements of activities as contributions and
gifts, net of the related direct expenses.
Direct Mail
UNCF raised $6,063,056 and $6,604,908 in contributions through its direct
mail campaigns and incurred related direct expenses of $2,609,079 and
$3,490,023 in fiscal years 2010, and 2009, respectively. These amounts are
reported in the accompanying statements of activities as contributions and
gifts, net of the related direct expenses.
An Evening of Stars(R)
UNCF's An Evening of Stars(R)
program is treated as a multipurpose event that
has as its primary objective building brand awareness. Through the program's
messaging strategy it 1) positions UNCF as the leader in minority education,
2) advocates for quality educational opportunity for all, 3) promotes UNCF's
member colleges and universities and 4) makes the case for donor support
throughout the year. During 2010, UNCF incurred joint costs of $6,008,889. Of
these costs, $901,333 were allocated to fund-raising expense and $5,107,556
were allocated to program services. During 2009, UNCF incurred joint costs of
$4,787,591. Of these costs, $718,138 were allocated to fund-raising expense
and $4,069,453 were allocated to program services.
19. Retirement Plans
All full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the
retirement plan on the first day of employment. After completing one year
of service, employees are eligible to receive employer contributions into the
retirement plan. The plan consists of participant voluntary and contributory
tax-deferred annuity plans through AXA-Equitable and Teachers Insurance
and Annuity Association and/or the College Retirement Equities Funds
(TIAA-CREF). UNCF provides a three percent non-contributory amount for
each eligible employee. Based on the percentage an employee defers, UNCF
makes an additional matching contribution of up to seven percent, totaling
an overall contribution of up to 10 percent.
UNCF also has supplemental agreements with certain current and past
key executives. In order to meet these obligations, UNCF maintains annuity
contracts amounting to $2,226,768 and $2,096,302 as of March 31, 2010,
and 2009, respectively and these are included within other assets on the
accompanying statements of financial position. The liabilities associated with
these agreements amounted to $2,050,871 and $2,703,061 as of March 31,
2010, and 2009, respectively and are included within accrued wages, vacation
and other related personnel expenses on the accompanying statements of
financial position. UNCF believes it has sufficient operating cash to account
for any shortfalls between the annuity contracts and the liability owed under
these agreements.
UNCF's expense related to the retirement plan and the supplemental
agreements was $940,728 and $801,164 for 2010, and 2009, respectively.
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 67
20. Commitments/Contingencies
Operating Leases
UNCF leases space for its national headquarters in Fairfax, VA, and 25
regional field offices at various locations throughout the United States.
Generally, the leases carry renewal provisions and require UNCF to pay
maintenance costs. The lease for the national headquarters expires in
2014, and the office leases for the regional locations expire at varying times
through 2015. At March 31, 2010, aggregate net minimum annual rental
commitments under the noncancelable operating leases, having an initial or
remaining term of more than one year are as follows:
Year ending March 31, 
2011 $1,712,308
2012 1,559,044
2013 1,358,568
2014 1,217,857
2015 105,401
Total $5,953,178
Rent expense under these leases amounted to $1,723,255 and $1,629,251
for the years ended March 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
Other
UNCF is party to various legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary
course of its business. UNCF's management believes that their ultimate
disposition will not have a material adverse effect on UNCF's financial
position or results of its operations.
21. Related Parties
UNCF Special Programs Corporation
On April 1, 2000, UNCF separated its government grant programs and
all related activities and transferred those activities to the UNCF Special
Programs Corporation (the Corporation), a separate 501(c)(3) entity.
The President and Chief Executive Officer of UNCF serves as the chairman
of the board of directors of the Corporation and one other member of the
board of directors of UNCF is also a board member of the Corporation.
UNCF does not exercise control nor does it have an economic interest in the
Corporation, as defined by FASB Topic ASC 958-810, Not-for-Profit Entities
Consolidations (previously known as SOP 94-3, Reporting of Related Entities
by Not-for-Profit Organizations). Therefore, UNCF did not consolidate the
financial statements of the Corporation, and no government grant activities
are included in UNCF's accompanying financial statements.
Other
UNCF receives contributions from donor organizations that have
representatives on UNCF's Board of Directors and from board members
themselves. Additionally, the sole manager appointed to assist UNCF with its
bond issuance in support of its new headquarters relocation into Washington,
D.C., is a voting member of the board of directors (see Note 22). Further,
UNCF maintains a revolving line of credit with said manager (see Note 13).
UNCF received $3,682,921 and $2,650,061 in contributions from such
related parties during the years ended March 31, 2010, and 2009,
respectively. The contributions receivable from these related parties were
$1,722,825 and $6,764,913 as of March 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
68 | U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C H A L L E N G E
22. Subsequent Events
Risks and Uncertainties
Due to the level of uncertainty related to changes in interest rates, market
volatility, and credit risks, it is at least reasonably possible that changes in
these risks could materially affect the fair value of investments reported in the
accompanying statements of financial position as of March 31, 2010. However,
management is of the belief that the diversification of UNCF's invested assets
among various asset classes (see Notes 5, 7 and 8) should mitigate the impact
of dramatic change on any one class. Further, because the values of UNCF's
individual investments have and will fluctuate in response to changing market
conditions, the amount of losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods,
if any, cannot be determined. These trends may also have an effect on the
ability of donors to fulfill their pledges on a timely basis. Management has
reviewed its contributions and gifts outstanding at March 31, 2010, and does
not believe that the effects of the market conditions will have a material effect
on the financial position of UNCF.
Line of Credit Financing
Subsequent to March 31, 2010, UNCF utilized approximately $2,500,000 of
its available $5,000,000 line of credit to fund various operating activities
(see Note 13).
Headquarters Relocation
The Executive Committee of the UNCF Board of Directors has authorized
management to pursue a non-binding agreement to design and build a new
corporate headquarters for UNCF. As such, during June 2010, UNCF entered
into a purchase and sale agreement for certain commercial condominium
units with a yet-to-be-constructed building to serve as its new corporate
headquarters. As part of the purchase and sale agreement, UNCF provided
a $300,000 deposit which is non-refundable except for specific conditions.
The purchase price of the units will be funded by tax-exempt fixed-rate-term
bonds which UNCF intends to issue by September or October 2010. As of date
of this report, the financing is expected to approximate $26,000,000 and will be
considered a general unsecured obligation of UNCF. Further, negotiations with
various parties are on-going related to this matter.
Management's Evaluation
In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 855, Subsequent Events (previously
known as SFAS No. 165, Subsequent Events), management has evaluated
any events or transactions occurring after March 31, 2010, the statement
of financial position date through August 16, 2010 (the date the financial
statements were available to be issued) and noted that there have been
no such events or transactions which would require adjustments to or
disclosure in UNCF's financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2010.
23. Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flows Information
March 31,  2010 2009
Cash paid during the year for interest $161,833 $30,083
U N C F : A N AT I O N A L C O M M I T M E N T | 69
8260 Willow Oaks Corporate Drive | P.O. Box 10444 | Fairfax, VA 22031-8044 | T 703 205 3400 | www.UNCF.org
