annual report 2013
Around the world, people are seeking a promise. The promise of a better tomorrow.
Their lives—and the challenges they face—are rarely simple and straightforward.
Whether they’re trapped in poverty, crippled by disease, or handicapped by a dearth
of natural resources—or any combination—it takes an array of locally adapted
tools, skills and methods to achieve lasting change in their livelihoods, health
and environment.
It takes an integrated approach.
By simultaneously developing the capacity of local organizations, expanding access to
markets, and nurturing government-citizen interaction, our integrated approach more
wholly reflects the way people live their lives and yields transformation greater than
the sum of its parts, fulfilling our promise of a better tomorrow for those we serve.
It works. In 2013, Pact and its partners helped:
•	 More than 2.8 million vulnerable people in 14 countries access the health products,
services and information they need to enjoy a healthier life.
•	 A total of 570,342 people with limited livelihoods choices gain the resources
needed to become income-secure.
•	 Resource-dependent communities improve nearly 2 million hectares of
ecosystems, thereby obtaining lasting benefit from the sustainable use of
natural resources around them.
Pact is a promise. A promise fulfilled is the result of a mosaic of interconnected pieces
working together for a greater whole.
There’s a place for everyone in Pact’s promise.
There is a place for everyone
in Pact’s promise. Stephen H. Oleskey
2013 Board Chair
Mark Viso
CEO + President
A mosaic’s parts are disparate but also unified. It has structure, forms a pattern but also
moves in different and new directions as other pieces join; it expands organically; there
is no end to what fits in.The more intricate and interwoven the mosaic, the stronger it
becomes.
From a mosaic of many interconnected pieces emerges a single, unified whole.
Pact’s brand of international development reflects the mosaic, our results often greater
than the sum of our parts.
Our integrated approach to helping people earn a decent living, be healthy and benefit
from their natural environment represents a holistic solution cobbled together from
diverse but related disciplines. Like a mosaic, people’s lives have many parts; to improve
the whole means improving many pieces.
To earn a dignified living, one needs good health and healthy markets.To maintain good
health, one requires income security that ensures food security and access to health
care. For a market to generate jobs, many communities must sustainably manage their
natural resources for lasting benefit.The pattern, as with a mosaic, repeats itself, one
factor reinforcing the next.
Our partners — more than 10,000, from community nonprofits to civil society orga-
nizations, village and town governments to citizen volunteers — add both depth and
breadth to our mosaic, and in turn partner with millions of people for whom Pact is a
promise of a better tomorrow.
In communities around the world where Pact works, those who are poor and marginal-
ized, one by one, learn to build their own solutions and take ownership of their future.
Transformations that, at scale, emerge in global change. Forming the coherent whole—
the mosaic.
A combination of diverse
elements forming a more
or less coherent whole.
In Ukraine, Pact and USAID helped Niyas,
a local weightlifter with cerebral palsy,
realize his dream of helping others
with disabilities through sport. Using a
crowdfunding website funded by Pact as
part of a program to support democracy,
donors chipped in small amounts of cash
to help the then 25-year-old weightlifter
build a gym where physically challenged
people could train to lift weights. Niyas’s
campaign raised $1,920; Pact and USAID
matched that amount when Pact awarded
Niyas a ‘Civic Innovation Fellowship,’ an
award given to residents of Crimea to
support community development projects.
In addition, Pact helped local partners
change Ukraine’s laws to create a
friendlier environment for philanthropy
and nongovernmental organizations,
including changes to Ukrainian law
allowing charitable organizations to use
the Internet to collect donations.
Our partners add both depth
and breadth to our mosaic.
a promise
realized
In November 2012, Pact became one of 12 NGOs to
provide guidance to extractive companies on
maintaining security while respecting human
rights.
improving systems of
governance, developing
local capacity
In South Sudan, Pact is helping the world’s
newest country implement peace and
improve rule of law. In 2012, Pact’s effort
to improve access to justice provided the
first in-depth view of the crisis and the
range of justice issues at play. The report,
published with our partner, the South
Sudan Law Society, found that one in 5
households had a family member killed in
the last two years. Justice issues ranging
from murder, abduction and sexual assault
to domestic violence, forced marriage,
and girl-child compensation were rife
throughout the six counties surveyed.
Today, many of those communities are
now implementing effective dispute
resolution systems and others are
following their examples.
supporting a
just society
In May 2013, Pact became first U.S.-based
implementing NGO to publish project data to
the International Aid Transparency Initiative.
enabling secure
livelihoods, improving
health, supporting
local capacity
Five Myanmar civil society organizations
began lending more than US$3 million to
farmers and women in isolated commu-
nities, thanks to help from Pact Global
Microfinance Fund and LIFT, a multi-donor
fund managed by the UN. Pact helped
the organizations improve their capacity
to offer quality microcredit services,
ensure their sustainability as they grow
their loan portfolios and learn from Pact’s
own microfinance operations. One of the
largest launches of microfinance lending
by local nonprofit organizations to date,
the loans will improve livelihoods and
food security for up to 45,000 families in
regions where no access to credit existed.
helping rural
communities
grow
Stephen H. Oleskey, Chair	
Hiscock and Barclay LLP
Dr. Lyndon Haviland, Vice chair	
Lyndon Haviland & Company
David Wilson	
Thompson Hine LLP
Dr. Eva T. Thorne	
Tony Blair Africa Governance Initiative
Frank Sims	
Cargill
David Skaggs	
McKenna, Long & Aldridge LLP
Pamela Roussos	
Santa Clara Center for Science,Technology and Society
Nancy Murphy	
Metropolitan Group
Mark Minelli	
Minelli, Inc.
Delia M. Marshall	
Bankf of New York Mellon
John Kohler	
Santa Clara Center for Science,Technology and Society
Bernhard Liese	
Georgetown University
Dr. Ana Rita Gonzalez	
PolicyWisdom
John Grimes	
Mission+ Strategic Solutions
Samantha Carey	
CTPartners
James Bernard	
Microsoft in Education
Kevin Mitchell	
BreitBurn Energy
Jennifer Silberman	
HiltonWorldwide
Mark Viso
President and CEO, Pact
William Warshauer
Chief Operating Officer
Leonard N. Williams
Chief Financial Officer and Executive
Vice President of Finance
Shawn Mood
Sr.Vice President
Global Human Resources
John Whalen
President, Pact Institute and
SVP Knowledge Management.
Graham Wood
Vice President
Program Advancement
Jeannie Zielinski
Vice President
Southern Africa and South Sudan
Suzanne Rexing
Vice President
Opportunity Development &
Communications
Katie Schwarm
Vice President
East andWest Africa
Kurt MacLeod
Vice President
Asia and Eurasia
supporters
Australian Agency for International Development
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Carnegie Corporation
Catholic Relief Services
Chevron Corporation
Coca Cola
Cogan Family Foundation
Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Donor Consortium of Livelihoods
Embassy of Finland
European Commission
General Electric Foundation
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS,Tuberculosis, and Malaria
ITRI and ITRI Innovation Ltd
Omidyar Foundation
OFDA
OyuTolgoi
Plan International
Qit Madagascar Minerals
Results for Development Institute
Rockefeller Foundation
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs
UK Department for International Development
United Nations Children’s Fund
United Nations Development Program
US Agency for International Development (USAID)
US Department of Labor
US Department of State
US Department of State - Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights
and Labor
US National Institutes of Health
TheWorld Bank
Hand in hand with partners, Pact tackles poverty through a unique brand of international
development—one that approaches poverty from all angles.The intrinsic value of Pact’s
approach is the ability to work across technical areas to design holistic programs that
squarely address multiple, interwoven factors associated with poverty and marginalization.
For people to truly lift themselves out of poverty, they need to earn a decent living, be healthy,
and take part in the benefits that nature provides.This integrated approach is customized in
every community in which Pact works. In the Pact model communities set their own priorities,
devise the best solution to their challenges with Pact’s guidance and assistance,
and enjoy a brighter tomorrow as a result of their own accomplishment.
2013 board of directors
leadership
Assets	2013
Cash And Cash Equivalents 	 $ 6 0,981,495
Investments 	 $3 ,116,741
Federal Grants Receivable 	 $2 ,360,791
Other Grants Receivable 	 $5 ,568,817
Advances And Other Receivables 	 $8 ,219,026
Prepaid Expenses And Deposits 	 $1 ,594,341 1,
Loan Portfolio, Net Of Loan Loss Reserve 	 $8 1,294,938
Property And Equipment, net 	 $1 ,430,993
	
	 Total Assets 	 $1 64,567,142	
Liabilities and Net Assets	
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 	 $ 7 ,496,656
Beneficiary savings and reserved funds 	 $24,369,347
Net returns on loans, reinvested earnings 	 $60,543,410
Refundable advances – federal 	 $26,068,445
Refundable advances – other 	 $34,312,814
	 Total Liabilities	 $152,790,672
Unrestricted – Pact, Inc. 	 $6 ,025,022
Unrestricted – Pact Institute, Inc. 	 $2 ,295,203
Unrestricted – Pact Global Microfinance Fund 	 $3 ,456,245
	
Total Net Assets	 $1 1,776,470
	 Total Liabilities and Net Assets	 $1 64,567,142
Support and Revenue	 2013
Grants and contracts 	 $ 162,008,246
Contributions 	 $467,908
Microfinance loan activities 	 $21,234,457
Fee income on microfinance loans 	 $239,570
Investment income, net 	 $424,336
Other revenue 	 $28,935
	 Total Support and Revenue	 $184,403,452
		
Expenses	
Program services 	 $ 162,165,076
Management and general 	 $17,343,543
Unrestricted general expenses 	 $387,556
Fundraising 	 $165,242
	 Total Expenses	 $180,061,417
Change in net assets 	 $4,342,035
Net assets:
Beginning 	 $7,434,435
Ending 	 $11,776,470
Statement of Financial Position
as of September 30, 2013
Statement of Activities	
for the year ending September 30, 2013
Pact is a promise,
and a promise
fulfilled.
The financial records of Pact, Inc. and affiliates are audited
annually by an independent firm of certified public accountants.
The financial records for 2013 were audited by McGladrey, LLP.
Audit reports are available at Pact, Inc..
www.pactworld.org
