2013 Annual Report
Mission Statement
The American Red Cross prevents and alleviates human
suffering in the face of emergencies by mobilizing the
power of volunteers and the generosity of donors.
Principles of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Network
Humanity · Impartiality · Neutrality · Independence · Voluntary service · Unity · Universality
© 2013 The American National Red Cross
Red Cross emergency response vehicles are loaded with hot meals for the nightly dinner run through Long Island, N.Y., after Superstorm Sandy.
Cover photo: At a Red Cross shelter in Toms River, N.J., a
teenager finds refuge after Superstorm Sandy.
2013 Annual Report 1
A Message From the Chairman
Looking back on the past year, one word comes to mind: resiliency.
People in communities across the United States--from the Jersey shore to the California canyons--
faced difficulties in the form of disasters of every kind...natural and human-caused. And in the aftermath
of these hardships, people banded together, not only for survival, but to help their communities become
even stronger.
This spirit of triumph over adversity is indispensable when disaster strikes. The American Red Cross
is privileged to work shoulder to shoulder through the entire disaster cycle...helping people prepare
for emergencies, providing essential services when disasters strike, and then assisting families and
communities as they begin their recovery and build resiliency for the future.
Thanks to the incredible generosity of the American public and our volunteers and partners who make
everything we do possible, the Red Cross was there last year, offering help and hope in the aftermath of
disasters. This included major disasters such as Superstorm Sandy, the devastating tornadoes in Oklahoma,
and wildfires in the West. We provided basics such as food and shelter, but also the hug and the listening
ear people need as they garner the strength to rebuild their lives...even stronger than before.
This focus on resiliency permeates the work we do around the world as well. Working with our partners in
the global Red Cross and Red Crescent network, we're working every day to improve lives and increase the
resiliency of communities around the world. We do this in connection with disaster relief, but also by helping
communities improve health conditions, increase income generation and protect citizens from disease.
One of the most successful preventive global health partnerships of our time has been the Measles &
Rubella Initiative, which the American Red Cross founded with several partners in 2001. Since then,
more than 1.1 billion children have been vaccinated, ensuring that a preventable disease does not become
a killer for countless families around the world.
For the last four years, since a devastating earthquake hit Haiti in January 2010, the American Red Cross
has worked with its partners to help Haiti develop the resilience needed to cope with future disasters.
Some of the projects that have been carried out to improve the lives of the Haitian people include
resettlement and new home construction, a water and sanitation project to improve water sources and
sanitation facilities for more than 90,000 people, and two health facilities that will provide access to
quality health care to Haitians for years to come.
Whether responding to disasters in the U.S. and around the world, teaching lifesaving skills, serving
members of the Armed Forces and their families, or providing nearly 40 percent of our nation's blood
supply, the American Red Cross is helping individuals and communities to be resilient and remain
unflappable in the face of challenges.
Together, we can fulfill our great humanitarian mission to prevent and ease suffering around the world.
On behalf of the entire American Red Cross and those we serve, thank you for the vital role you play.
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
Chairman
2
A Message From the President and CEO
As I write this letter, I can't help but reflect on what an incredibly busy past 12 months it has been for the
American Red Cross.
Throughout fiscal year 2013 (July 1, 2012-June 30, 2013), dedicated Red Crossers worked tirelessly to fulfill
our vital humanitarian mission--responding to tens of thousands of disasters large and small, collecting
and distributing nearly 40 percent of our nation's blood supply, teaching lifesaving health and safety skills
to millions of Americans and supporting members of our Armed Forces and their families.
The ongoing recovery effort for Superstorm Sandy continues to be a massive undertaking. In the aftermath
of the storm, the Red Cross response was widespread, with 17,000 disaster workers--90 percent of them
volunteers--providing comfort, relief and hope to impacted individuals and families. Since Sandy made
landfall in October 2012, the Red Cross has maintained a strong presence in affected areas, working with
government and nonprofit partners to ensure communities have the funding and capacity needed to
meet the unique challenges they face in the recovery process. Thanks to the generosity of our donors, we
continue to support a range of critical services, from ongoing food and housing assistance to individual case
management and support.
In addition to our Sandy recovery work, the Red Cross has responded to a number of significant disaster
and emergency events--including the devastating Oklahoma tornadoes, wildfires throughout the West,
flooding in Colorado and the Boston Marathon bombing. We continue to work hard every day to be a
fiscally responsible and innovative organization that can quickly respond to current trends and changing
needs. The Red Cross has stepped boldly into the 21st century with a series of highly successful, free mobile-
preparedness apps and a growing presence on social media. Our mobile apps continue to receive high praise
from consumers, and this past summer, the Red Cross surpassed the 1 million mark for Twitter followers.
As we look to the future, the Red Cross is committed to being a healthy, vibrant and sustainable
organization. The number of natural disasters is on the rise, more members of our Armed Forces are
coming home in need of assistance in adjusting to civilian life, and our blood products and health and safety
courses are saving lives every day.
Our organization faces some financial challenges in the years ahead. For example, the overall demand for
blood products has dropped as medical treatments advance and fewer transfusions are necessary. It is a
welcome humanitarian development, but this trend has led to tough economic conditions for the entire
blood banking industry. The Red Cross is looking at ways to right-size and restructure our biomedical work,
even as we continue to collect thousand of units of blood every day.
We can--and we must--address these challenges to continue to fulfill our mission. The country needs the
Red Cross, now more than ever, and our goal is to ensure the American people can rely on our lifesaving
services for generations to come.
On behalf of those we serve, thank you for your commitment to the Red Cross and our humanitarian
mission. Everything we are able to do is because of the truly remarkable support of donors, volunteers and
partners, like you.
Gail McGovern
President and CEO
3
2013 Annual Report
On the afternoon of May 20, 2013, sirens began
to wail across Moore, Okla., as a large tornado
headed toward town with winds over 200 miles
per hour. For some residents, another warning
sounded on their mobile device--an alert from
the Red Cross Tornado app.
"[The app] saved my life," one person wrote. "The
warning came on and I had enough time to gather
everybody up and discuss our plan. We checked
some info about where to go safely using the app.
Thanks to this, me, my kids, my wife, my parents
and their neighbors are all safe."
The Tornado app is just one of the Red Cross
innovations over the past year that is changing the
way the public prepares, responds, seeks help and
helps others.
When Superstorm Sandy hit in October 2012,
millions were left without power, and many people
lacked food and other basic supplies. The Red
Cross monitored social media activity and fed
information from Twitter and Facebook to local Red
Cross responders, who were then able to provide
the right help at the right location.
In 2013, the Red Cross launched the Volunteer
Connection, a Web-based system for people
to explore opportunities in their communities
and apply to become a Red Cross volunteer.
Thousands have submitted applications, and the
site has already helped us manage responses to
several large-scale disasters.
Our public website, redcross.org, has been
redesigned to make it easy for people to get the
latest information on our services, connect with the
Red Cross in their community and safely donate to
help those in need. Optimized for mobile devices,
redcross.org is available wherever and whenever
people need it.
Building on the work of Clara Barton in founding
the American Red Cross in 1881, we continue
to seek new ways to work on behalf of humanity.
Whether that's using technology to respond to
disasters more quickly, connecting with the public
through social media, or even helping to save a life
with a mobile app, we are always looking for the
next innovation that will take our historic mission
into a new era.
Innovating to Improve Our Services
Our mission, like our red cross, stays
the same, but we continually seek new
and better ways to accomplish it.
An
AMERICAN RED CROSS
S T O R Y
When flooding from Superstorm Sandy inundated
their home, Justin and Lucie O'Donnell, baby James,
and their three dogs stayed with family and friends. Justin,
with help from friends and coworkers, gutted the home
and started repairs. But much of the work required skilled
labor. Bills began to pile up. Then the O'Donnells
connected with a Red Cross case manager who helped
the family receive funding through the Red Cross
Move-In Assistance Program to pay for home
repairs. The O'Donnells are now back in their home,
joined by daughter Maeve, born a year after the storm.
5
2013 Annual Report
From natural events to human-caused tragedies
throughout the past year, the Red Cross was there
to provide communities with the help and support
they needed.
Superstorm Sandy Strikes
Late in the hurricane season, a storm named
Sandy took aim at a part of the country not usually
targeted by tropical systems, with devastating
results. Sandy made landfall near Atlantic City,
N.J., on October 29, 2012, merging with a winter
storm and bringing heavy rain, snow and floods.
It pummeled the Northeast as well as parts of
West Virginia and Maryland. Thousands were left
homeless, and nearly 8.5 million people lost power
across 1
1 states, the District of Columbia and
Puerto Rico, some for weeks.
With an incredible outpouring of support from
the public and partners such as the Annual
Disaster Giving Program (ADGP) members, the
Red Cross was able to immediately launch what
became our largest U.S. disaster response in more
than five years. Red Cross workers--more than
90 percent of them volunteers--opened shelters
and provided food and comfort to thousands
of people as they faced their losses and the
uncertainty of starting over.
Red Cross emergency vehicles drove the streets
of New York and New Jersey to deliver relief to
devastated neighborhoods. In urban communities,
power outages to high-rise buildings left some
elderly and physically challenged residents shut in
for many days. Volunteers went door-to-door and
floor-by-floor distributing blankets, meals, water,
hygiene items and cleaning supplies, and providing
health and mental health assistance.
While emergency assistance continued for
months, Red Cross caseworkers also began
guiding families in planning and taking the first
difficult steps toward recovery. Long-term recovery
programs continue to help several thousand
residents as they put their lives back together.
In addition to directly assisting families, the Red
Cross has been supporting partner organizations
working in New York, New Jersey and other states
with grants to meet the needs of Sandy survivors.
Recovery grants support direct client assistance,
disaster case management, rebuilding homes,
security deposits and housing assistance.
Answering Crisis With Action
Highlights from FY 2013
Red Cross volunteers load hot meals for delivery to those
affected by Superstorm Sandy.
Responded to 61,109 disasters across
the country.
916 shelters provided refuge to people
forced from their homes.
Served more than 19.6 million meals
and snacks.
Distributed 7.8 million relief items.
187,000 health and mental health
contacts made.
Provided large-scale relief across 37 states,
the District of Columbia and three territories.
6
The grants also offer assistance in coordinating
the efforts of groups as they work together to
rebuild their communities.
For more information about ongoing Superstorm
Sandy recovery efforts, visit redcross.org.
Help Through Multiple Disasters
While Superstorm Sandy was the largest and most
notable response of the past year, it was certainly
not the only large disaster. Other major disasters
that the Red Cross responded to included
Hurricane Isaac, which struck the Gulf Coast in late
August 2012, and major floods that hit the upper
Midwest in spring 2013. In hard-hit Illinois, where
floods affected 10,000 homes, more than 1,000
Red Cross volunteers worked to provide shelter
and food for displaced families and deliver relief
supplies and cleanup items to those returning to
their homes.
Late spring also brought devastating tornadoes
to Oklahoma, and raging wildfires to Arizona,
California and Colorado. Wherever residents were
forced from their homes, the Red Cross provided
a safe place to stay, food, cleanup supplies and
help taking the first steps toward recovery.
And when major floods in June affected the
Canadian province of Alberta, the American
Red Cross sent 1
1 staff members to lend a hand
to the Canadian Red Cross relief operation, just
one example of how the two organizations have
helped one another over the years.
Support Amid Tragedy
Not all disasters are created by nature. Over
the past year, several tragic events affected the
country, and the Red Cross was there to support
communities and first responders during those
difficult times.
After the shootings in Aurora, Colo.; Oak Creek,
Wis.; and Newtown, Conn., and the bombing at
the Boston Marathon, Red Cross workers helped
survivors, family members and first responders
by providing relief items and emotional support
during what once would have seemed to be
unimaginable circumstances.
The Red Cross was also there to help residents of
West, Texas, after a fertilizer plant explosion in April.
Red Cross workers provided emotional support in
the immediate aftermath, and as people began to
return home, we opened emergency aid stations
in neighborhoods to provide food, water, emotional
support, health services and relief supplies.
These disasters resulted in many injuries, so
the Red Cross also called up blood supplies to
help victims. For example, the Red Cross sent
approximately 500 additional units of blood,
platelets and plasma to Boston-area hospitals
after the bombing, and provided blood products
for those injured in the Texas explosion.
Two young men carry meals to friends and family
working to find belongings after tornadoes destroyed
homes in Moore, Okla.
Wildfires drove these children and their family to a
Red Cross shelter in Prescott, Ariz.
8
Protecting Our Neighbors
Major disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes,
floods and wildfires get a great deal of media and
public attention, but tens of thousands of families
are affected each year by home fires. The fact is
that the Red Cross responds to a disaster about
every eight minutes, and the vast majority of them
are fires.
In addition to responding to help those affected by
home fires, we also work to help people prevent
these fires. Protecting Our Neighbors, developed
from a partnership between the Red Cross and
HOPE worldwide, is a nationwide fire prevention
and preparedness program that seeks to bring
more attention to this pervasive, "silent" disaster.
The program relies on volunteers to personally
deliver fire safety information into vulnerable
communities. Last year, Protecting Our Neighbors
held nationwide events on both Martin Luther
King, Jr. Day and on the National Day of Service
and Remembrance on September 1
1, 2012.
During these events, nearly 9,000 volunteers
went door-to-door to talk with residents about
fire safety and prevention, and succeeded in
reaching 202,000 households.
What started with just a few dozen volunteers
canvassing neighborhoods in only 10 cities has
grown to include the efforts of 36,000 volunteers
reaching 673,000 households in just six years.
The Pillowcase Project
When evacuations began ahead of Hurricane
Katrina in 2005, some students were seen
carrying their valuables in pillowcases, which
inspired the Red Cross in New Orleans to work
with an art therapist on a program for children
that involved decorating pillowcases. This became
a preparedness program for elementary school
students that has been adapted and implemented
by other Red Cross chapters over the years.
In early 2013, Disney funded the design and
development phase of a multiyear effort to
create a standardized, state-of-the-art
preparedness education program. As a result,
The Pillowcase Project will be used and adapted
by Red Cross chapters across the U.S. and
expanded internationally to reach hundreds of
thousands of children.
Engaging, educating children
"
Kids are at their most vulnerable when the unexpected
happens. With the compassion and expertise of the
American Red Cross, we hope to educate families about
the importance of preparedness and provide kids with
innovative and engaging tools so they can feel secure in
any environment."
­ Jay Rasulo
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
The Walt Disney Company
The popular Pillowcase Project is being standardized
and updated.
9
2013 Annual Report
The American Red Cross works with our partners
in the global Red Cross and Red Crescent network
each day to meet needs around the world.
Building Community Resilience
and Preparing for Disasters
We have seen the challenges that communities
face, and know that preparing people for large-
scale disasters isn't enough; we must help
communities better withstand and quickly recover
from damaging events of any size or type, including
smaller-scale emergencies and hardships.
This is why the Red Cross is focusing on building
community resilience--the ability to survive, adapt
and bounce back. Because some risks may not
have to do with disasters at all, we also help
communities improve health conditions, increase
income generation and ensure more reliable
infrastructure.
The American Red Cross works with local Red
Cross partners and communities around the world
to build the skills of first responders, formulate
emergency plans, establish evacuation routes,
strengthen early warning systems and teach adults
and children how to stay safe with trainings, drills
and public awareness campaigns.
For example, in Colombia and Vietnam, Red Cross
school-based disaster preparedness programs
teach children from an early age to prepare and
be more confident in their ability to respond;
and in Bangladesh, a cyclone preparedness
program has trained thousands of volunteers to
warn residents of impending storms and assist
in evacuation efforts.
Responding to Disasters
and Complex Emergencies
Every year, millions of people around the world
experience the devastating effects of disasters
such as floods, droughts and epidemics. Working
with our partners in the global Red Cross and
Red Crescent network, the American Red Cross
helped an estimated 1.3 million people affected
by flooding, storms, droughts, conflict and other
disasters in 24 countries in fiscal year 2013
(July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013) by providing
relief supplies, financial assistance and disaster
response and recovery specialists.
Addressing Needs on a Global Scale
A woman sits with her daughter in front of a home
damaged by Hurricane Sandy in Cuba.
Highlights from FY 2013
An estimated 1.3 million people received
disaster assistance from the American Red
Cross in coordination with our global Red
Cross and Red Crescent network partners.
Red Cross partners and communities in
32 countries were better prepared for
future disasters.
More than 98 million children were
protected against measles.
6,354 people turned to the Red Cross to
find missing loved ones following armed
conflicts and disasters.
10
In addition to helping people affected by Hurricane
Sandy in Jamaica, Haiti and Cuba, we supported
Red Cross partners as they responded to nine
other major floods and storm events. This included
providing supplies such as tarps and shelter kits,
and cash grants to help those affected purchase
the items they needed to recover.
In Syria, the American Red Cross has supported
the ongoing Red Cross and Red Crescent
response to the conflict that has impacted more
than 6.8 million people1 since March 201
1. The
global Red Cross and Red Crescent network is
providing food, relief supplies and basic health care
to those affected by the crisis within Syria
and supporting the basic needs of those fleeing
to neighboring countries.
The American Red Cross also provided financial
support for relief operations in the occupied
Palestinian territories and Israel, as well as in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Continuing Our Work After
the Haiti Earthquake
We continue to work alongside our partners to
help Haiti recover and build the resilience needed
to cope with future disasters. A number of post-
earthquake projects were completed last year,
including a water and sanitation project that
provided improved water sources and sanitation
facilities to more than 90,000 people, and the
construction of two hospitals.
We are working hand-in-hand with the Haitian
Red Cross and the Haitian people on a range
of other recovery projects in Port-au-Prince and
communities in northern Haiti. Together, these
projects aim to help more than 200,000 people
create safer, more resilient communities.
Planning jointly with local residents and authorities,
the American Red Cross is also improving
neighborhood health centers, roads and water and
sanitation facilities, and increasing the financial
security of families through micro-savings groups,
contributing to more resilient communities.
Seeking to Eliminate Measles
Because primary health care systems in many
low- and middle-income countries are weak,
vaccination campaigns are often the only
opportunity some children will have to be
vaccinated against measles and rubella.
The Measles & Rubella Initiative, a partnership the
American Red Cross helped establish, is reducing
measles deaths worldwide by helping to monitor
the spread of the disease and conducting massive,
countrywide vaccination campaigns.
Local Red Cross volunteers often play an integral
role in these campaigns by ensuring that parents
hear about the vaccination efforts and understand
the importance of bringing their children to be
immunized and protected against this highly
contagious, deadly disease.
Since 2001, the Measles & Rubella Initiative2 has
helped vaccinate more than 1.1 billion children in
80 countries, making it one of the world's most
successful global health partnerships.
A child at the Yeshmnesh Academy in the Benishagul
region of Ethiopia displays the marked finger that
signifies she has received her measles vaccination.
Because of their floating backpacks and the training
provided by the Red Cross, these students in Vietnam
are no longer afraid of flash floods.
1 As of September 2013
2The Measles & Rubella Initiative includes the American Red Cross,
 United Nations Foundation, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
 Prevention, UNICEF and World Health Organization.
12
For more than a century, the American
Red Cross has been dedicated to meeting
the needs of military members, their families
and veterans. Even as services such as providing
emergency communications continue, new
Red Cross programs are created to best serve
the needs of this population, from families dealing
with deployment to veterans returning to the
civilian workforce.
Easing the Transition Home
Each stage of military life has its unique
challenges, and coming home from a deployment
is no different. The Red Cross provides several
educational programs and resources to make this
adjustment easier.
Last year, nearly 4,000 people took part in Red
Cross Reconnection Workshops, focusing on
topics that military members and their families have
found relevant to their experience as they
transition back home. These include managing
anger, supporting children, building communication,
reconnecting with others, and recognizing post-
traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and traumatic
brain injury.
The Red Cross also hosted educational and
support meetings for nearly 25,000 military
members and their families in communities across
the country. These meetings focus on providing
moral support and information on Red Cross
services available for their use.
Putting Skills to Work
Whether it's the spouse of a deployed military
member looking for work, or a veteran entering the
civilian job market for the first time, employment
issues are top of mind for many military families.
The Red Cross is doing its part to provide
employment development programs and ensure
that valuable skills are not wasted. Hundreds
of dental and medical assistants were trained
on military installations and at local Red Cross
chapters last year, and more than 2,600 veterans
and family members received help in developing
resumes and honing their interview skills.
The Red Cross is also working to include more
veterans in its own ranks by partnering with the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on VA for
Vets, a comprehensive career management
program launched in 201
1 that enables veterans to
successfully join the civilian workforce.
VA for Vets offers career search tools for veterans
seeking employment, career development services,
and reintegration support for military members. The
program launched with a focus on driving hires and
support for veteran hiring within the VA, and has
transitioned into a program designed to connect
veterans with opportunities in other federal
agencies and with nonprofit organizations.
Serving Those Who Serve Our Nation
Supporting the mission
"
For over 125 years, the American Red Cross has been
sustaining communities, transforming lives and delivering
lifesaving services to families affected by disasters.
In support of their unwavering mission, University of
Phoenix, the nation's largest university dedicated to the
working adult learner, is proud to partner with the American
Red Cross through their Service to the Armed Forces,
Biomedical Services and Annual Disaster Giving programs."
­ Arra G. Yerganian
Chief Marketing Officer
University of Phoenix
13
2013 Annual Report
As one of those nonprofits, the Red Cross made a
commitment in 2012 to hire 1,000 veterans by the
end of 2014. By June 2013, the Red Cross was
already more than halfway to that goal.
Help at a Critical Time
The rising suicide rate among both active-duty
military members and veterans has been a source
of concern for the military and country alike.
To address this difficult issue, the Red Cross is
working with the Veterans Crisis Line to ensure
that both these groups get the help they need.
The Veterans Crisis Line connects veterans in
crisis and their families and friends with qualified
Department of Veterans Affairs responders
through a confidential toll-free hotline, online chat
or text.
The crisis line initiates actions to help when a
call comes in from a veteran, and when the call
concerns someone currently on active duty, it is
immediately put through to the Red Cross. In close
association with the military, the Red Cross can
quickly locate the military member in crisis and
request that the person's commanding officer
intervene to ensure the person is safe. The Red
Cross can help regardless of where the person
is currently serving, whether in the U.S., overseas,
deployed to a combat zone or aboard a ship at sea.
The crisis line and the Red Cross also work with
local law enforcement to assist in locating and
intervening to help retirees, veterans and other
military members. Last year, the Red Cross
intervened in nearly 400 incidents involving
someone threatening to harm themselves or
commit suicide.
Supporting military members and their families where
they work and live is a key Red Cross service.
Highlights from FY 2013
Provided more than 330,000 emergency
assistance services to military members
and their families.
Distributed more than 140,000 care,
comfort and therapy items at hospitals and
medical facilities for military members,
veterans and their families.
Hosted nearly 300 special events for more
than 9,400 participants at military hospitals
as part of our partnership with the Wounded
Warrior Project.
An
AMERICAN RED CROSS
S T O R Y
When she was 10 days old, Marquita
Gaines was diagnosed with sickle cell
disease. This painful genetic blood disorder
affects primarily African-Americans. Every six
weeks, she receives blood transfusions to treat
and prevent complications from the disease.
Now a busy college senior, Marquita still takes
time to tell others her story, emphasizing the
importance of blood donation.
15
2013 Annual Report
The American Red Cross supplies nearly
40 percent of the country's blood, providing a
lifesaving service to trauma victims, cancer
patients, those with chronic conditions and others.
In order to meet these needs, the Red Cross must
collect about 15,000 units of blood every day.
It is thanks to the many generous blood donors
across the country--from high school students to
grandparents--that this work is possible.
Fighting Sickle Cell Disease
Sickle cell disease is an inherited condition that
affects approximately 70,000 African-Americans.
Some children with the condition need blood
transfusions throughout the year, with the best
blood match for an African-American child usually
coming from an African-American donor.
TThe Red Cross Blue Tag program seeks to recruit
blood donors specifically to help patients with
sickle cell disease. Under this program, donors
who identify themselves as African-American or
black can have a blue tag attached to their blood
collection bag. This indicates that the donated
unit will undergo advanced screening and may be
matched to a patient with sickle cell disease.
For the Red Cross, the Blue Tag program has
grown from its start in Philadelphia and is now
used across the country, and it has become the
foundation for future outreach and recruitment
efforts in the African-American community.
Giving Blood Is Always in Season
On June 14, 2013, the Red Cross celebrated
World Blood Donor Day with the launch of the
2013 Nexcare give program--sponsored by
Nexcare, a division of 3M--to raise awareness
about the importance of year-round blood donation
and to encourage people across the country to roll
up a sleeve.
This nationwide program thanked those who
give blood and inspired others to participate
in an annual tradition of donating. Red Cross
spokesperson Soleil Moon Frye joined the 2013
Nexcare give program to bring further attention to
the heroic act of giving blood.
A Lifesaving Gift of Blood
This student participates in the University of Missouri's
28th annual Homecoming Blood Drive, which raised the
school's total to more than 100,000 donated units over
the years.
Highlights from FY 2013
3.3 million people donated
approximately 5.7 million units of blood.
These donations were processed into
more than 8 million blood products for
transfusion to meet the needs of patients.
The Red Cross must collect about 15,000
units of blood each day in order to keep up
with demand.
16
Frye grew up understanding the importance of
social activism and community aid through blood
donation. Surrounded by family members who
donate blood regularly, she has seen firsthand how
lives can be saved through this selfless act.
Frye's commitment to raising awareness through
the Nexcare give program and World Blood
Donor Day came at an important time of year.
With schools out of session and families on
vacation, fewer people are available to give blood
during the summer months, making it a challenge
to ensure a sufficient blood supply is available for
those in need.
For 2013, Nexcare Brand gave away limited-edition
bandages inspired by the four seasons, each
adorned with the word "give" to demonstrate the
theme that "Giving Blood Is Always in Season."
The collection featured eight unique, seasonally
influenced designs, including summer flip-flops,
winter snowflakes, fall foliage, spring flowers
and more.
Seeing the Impact of Blood Donation
It's not often that blood donors get to meet the
person who received their lifesaving gift. In a
special reunion in March 2013, though, a group of
13 donors met one famous recipient.
Supermodel Niki Taylor was critically injured
in a 2001 car accident, after which more than
300 blood donors rolled up a sleeve to help an
unknown patient in need.
The reunion at the Metropolitan Atlanta Chapter of
the Red Cross was a surprise for the blood donors,
who knew they were meeting a recipient, but did
not know the person they helped was a celebrity.
"I have donated 56 times," said Susan Jackson,
an Atlanta-area donor. "This is giving me added
inspiration to continue."
Taylor credits her survival to the blood donors who
gave her a second chance at life and the doctors,
nurses and staff at Grady Memorial Hospital who
treated her.
Doing more together
"
At Nationwide, we pride ourselves on doing more together
than we can alone; and that's why we partner with the
American Red Cross. The Red Cross provides food and
shelter when disaster strikes and ensures lifesaving blood
will be on the shelves for patients in need. As fellow first
responders, we are both there when it matters most."
­ Steve Rasmussen
Chief Executive Officer, Nationwide
In Oakland, Calif., Abeba Fitzgerald-Britto donates both
whole blood and platelets because "it's the best way to
give something back and you feel like a million dollars
when you're done."
An
AMERICAN RED CROSS
S T O R Y
When George Hickman suffered cardiac
arrest at work, coworkers and plant
security officers knew what to do. Because
of their training and quick action, George's
heartbeat was restored and he was breathing
when paramedics arrived. Today, he is back at
work and was present when his six rescuers
received a national Red Cross award that
recognizes those who have used their Red
Cross training to save or sustain a life.
18
Millions of people turn to the Red Cross each
year to learn how to prepare for emergencies,
and for good reason. Red Cross training has
helped countless people--both laypersons and
professional responders--learn how to respond
and save lives. And as more and more information
is available digitally, the Red Cross has kept pace
by introducing apps that provide critical help at the
touch of a screen, along with online courses and
preparedness programs.
Help at Your Fingertips
In addition to games and other entertaining apps,
there are also apps that can save lives, including
a series of award-winning, disaster-specific
American Red Cross apps that put lifesaving
information in the palm of a hand.
Joining the Red Cross First Aid App--which
was released in June 2012--the free Hurricane,
Tornado, Wildfire and Earthquake apps were
created and launched over the past year to deliver
useful, and sometimes lifesaving, information to
mobile devices.
During fiscal year 2013 (July 1, 2012 to June
30, 2013), the apps collectively issued 47 million
customized, real-time weather alerts to users for
multiple natural disasters, including tornadoes,
hurricanes and floods. One such disaster
happened on Christmas Day 2012, which brought
the unwelcome surprise of a tornado to Mobile, Ala.
Fortunately for one person visiting the area, one of
the Red Cross apps on her phone alerted her to
the impending emergency.
"Every 15 minutes it went off, telling us the tornado
was coming--it was a tornado warning, and to take
shelter immediately . . . it hit less than half a mile
from us," said Heather Harlow.
The Red Cross apps can be found in the Apple
App Store and the Google Play Store for Android.
Getting Trained and Prepared
in a Digital World
Although a traditional classroom setting can be fun,
learning in the comfort of one's home does have
its advantages.
New Tools to Help America Prepare
Highlights from FY 2013
Nearly 6.8 million people learned
lifesaving skills or downloaded a
preparedness app from the Red Cross.
More than 2.3 million people attended
a Red Cross disaster preparedness
presentation.
More than 47 million weather alerts were
sent through Red Cross mobile apps.
Online courses like Babysitter Basics allow students to
learn when and where they choose.
19
2013 Annual Report
Over the past year, the Red Cross has introduced
several courses that can be taken online, and
at the student's own pace, anywhere they have
Internet access. Babysitter Basics, for example,
trains youth on providing care for infants and
children; how to stay safe; what to do in an
emergency; how to choose age-appropriate
activities; and how to recognize and handle a
variety of behaviors. Students also learn the basics
of starting a babysitting business, and can even
download templates for their own resumes and
business cards.
The course was promoted in a new way designed
to appeal to both young teens and their parents.
The Web ad "The Babysitter You Don't Want to
Be" gave a funny, don't-try-this-at-home look
at situations babysitters should avoid, and called
on young caregivers to take the Babysitter
Basics course.
Ensuring Small Businesses Are Ready
Small business owners put a lot into their work--
too much to risk losing it. Unfortunately, many
businesses never reopen after a disaster, so the
Red Cross is helping businesses prepare for these
events and increase their odds of bouncing back.
The Ready Rating program is a free online program
designed to help businesses, organizations and
schools become better prepared for emergencies.
Members complete a self-assessment of their level
of preparedness and then have access to tools,
tips and best practices to help improve their level.
Last year, Ready Rating small business
membership doubled to more than 6,000 small
businesses. Ninety-three percent of the members
rated the program highly, and two-thirds of those
who experienced a disaster or emergency said
that the actions they took as a result of the Ready
Rating program helped them reopen their business
more quickly.
August ­ Hurricane
Generated 400,000 downloads
during Superstorm Sandy.
September ­ Earthquake
Provides notifications from the
U.S. Geological Survey when
an earthquake occurs and
perceived shaking impacts in
the user's area.
October ­ Wildfire
Preloaded content provides
instant access to information on
what to do before, during and
after wildfires--even without
mobile connectivity.
March ­ Tornado
An audible siren automatically
goes off even if the app is
closed when NOAA issues a
tornado warning--helping to
reduce the chance of sleeping
through a life-threatening
storm.
Mobile App Releases
Fiscal Year 2013
All apps are available on the Apple App Store
and the Google Play Store for Android.
20
The challenge for many historic organizations is
finding new ways to tell your story. At the Red
Cross, we are meeting this challenge by embracing
change and getting a new generation involved in
our 132-year-old humanitarian mission.
The Storytellers Campaign
Starting in December 2012, a new documentary-
style ad campaign for the Red Cross rolled out
across the country. The print and TV ad spots, which
feature unscripted stories created and filmed by the
participants, are powerful and personal accounts of
how their lives have been touched by the Red Cross.
While the American Red Cross has a long and
proud history, many people don't know what the
organization does apart from major disaster relief
and blood collection. The most effective way to tell
the Red Cross story was to let the public tell it--by
having them share their stories, in their own way.
After reaching out to the public, we received more
than 1,200 stories, and several were then selected
for development. These became a series of personal
and quietly powerful stories that feature people
across the country and show the entire scope of
Red Cross work.
Building Lifelong Supporters
Young people are a critical part of the American
Red Cross. They are enthusiastic blood donors,
they get trained in lifesaving skills such as first aid
and CPR, and they give generously of their time
and money.
To help build and mobilize lifelong supporters of the
Red Cross, we are focusing more on the power of
youth and young adults to propel our organization
into the future. In the past year, we have created
new resources and materials to make it easier for
our chapters across the country to recruit, engage
and recognize youth volunteers.
This new generation will be critical to continuing
the work of the Red Cross, ensuring that there
will always be new stories made and told of our
lifesaving mission.
Stories of Help ­ Today and Tomorrow
The Storytellers Campaign encouraged people to tell their
Red Cross stories in their own words and photos.
PHOTO AND STORY BY:
THe PeReZ fAmilY
On a cold January morning, Angelina and her family woke to a
fire that within hours had destroyed their home. The American
Red Cross was there with shoes, warm clothes and shelter that
allowed her family to stay together. Your donations help the Red
Cross respond to a home fire like Angelina's every 9 minutes.
Please donate now at redcross.org
2013 Annual Report 21
The Chairman's Council
Trace Adkins
The Ahmanson Foundation
Anonymous (St. Joseph, Mo.)
Anonymous (Scarsdale, N.Y.)
The Anschutz Foundation
The Arcadia Foundation
Lucille & Don R. Armacost
The Bullock Family
Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Nicolas Cage
Margaret A. Cargill
Judith M. & Russell L. Carson
J. Harwood & Louise B. Cochrane
Colcom Foundation
James M. Cox Foundation
Jenny Craig
Dalio Foundation
The Dart Foundation
Michael & Susan Dell
John R. Denzler & Sons
The Paul Desmond Estate
George S. & Dolores Doré Eccles
Foundation
Kathleen A. Ernst Charitable
Foundation
Pamela A. Farr
The Lee & Juliet Folger Fund
Sam J. Frankino Foundation
Mr. & Mrs. Robert W. Galvin
Lady Gaga & the Germanottas
The Granger Foundation
Dorrance Hill Hamilton
Mr. & Mrs. Leon "Pete" Harman
The Harriman Family
Randy Harris & Joey Proffitt Harris
Colleen G. Hempleman
The Albert M. Higley Family
Conrad N. Hilton Foundation
Bill & Jill Howard
Jon & Karen Huntsman
Ann F. Kaplan
Michele & Howard Kessler
Lavin Family Foundation
Jeannik Méquet Littlefield
Richard E. & Nancy Peery Marriott
Rex & Alice A. Martin
The Mazzone Family
Alvin & Wanda McCall
Susan & Craig McCaw
Bowen H. "Buzz" & Barbara
McCoy
Chairman Bonnie McElveen-
Hunter
Janice & Robert C. McNair
The Meadows Foundation
Robert W. Merrick
Loren E. Parks
The Robin & Richard Patton
Family
The Peierls Foundation
T. Boone Pickens
The Rapaport Family
Bruce & Diana Rauner
Emily Frances & John Raymond
Julia Roberts
Lily Safra
Rowena Yarak Schaber
H. Marshall & Rae Paige Schwarz
Thomas D. Scott
The Semnani Family Foundation
Deborah G. Seymour
Jean D. Shehan
Ellen G. Shelton & Family
Denise R. Sobel
The Steinbrenner Family
Perry & Ruby Stevens
Janet & John Swanson
J.T. Tai Foundation
Velma Wallace
Thank you to our generous Chairman's Council members.
Each member of The Chairman's Council has made an
outstanding investment in the American Red Cross. The
contributions of these individuals and families have helped
the Red Cross provide life-changing and lifesaving services--
down the street, across the country and around the world.
Chairman's Council Members*
Donors with giving of $1 million or more
* As of June 30, 2013
Photo: Donor names are etched in granite in The Chairman's Council
Plaza at Red Cross national headquarters in Washington, D.C.
22
Corporate Supporters
3M
Altria Group
Aon
AT&T
Bank of America
BNY Mellon
Briggs & Stratton
Caterpillar Inc.
CHS Foundation
Cisco Foundation
Citi Foundation
The Clorox Company
Community Safety Foundation,
funded by CSAA Insurance Group,
a AAA Insurer
ConAgra Foods Foundation
Costco Wholesale Corporation
Darden Restaurants Foundation
Dell Inc.
Discover
Disney
Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Edison International
FedEx Corporation
GE Foundation
H-E-B
Hewlett-Packard Company
Foundation
The Home Depot Foundation
Humble Bundle
jcpenney
John Deere Foundation
Johnson Controls
Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Kraft Foods Group
Lowe's Companies, Inc.
Medtronic
Meijer
Merck & Co., Inc.
Mondel
ez International
National Grid
Nationwide Insurance Foundation
Northrop Grumman Foundation
Optum
PepsiCo and the PepsiCo
Foundation
Southwest Airlines
Sprint
State Farm
State Street
Target
Texas Instruments
The TJX Companies, Inc.
UnitedHealthcare
University of Phoenix
UPS
US Airways
Walmart
WellPoint Foundation
Wells Fargo
American Express
ArcelorMittal
AstraZeneca
AXA Foundation
Delta Air Lines
Farmers Insurance
Ford Motor Company
General Motors Foundation
H&R Block
Ingersoll Rand Foundation
Marsh & McClennan
Companies, Inc.
Morgan Stanley
New Balance Foundation
Northwestern Mutual and the
Northwestern Mutual Foundation
Procter & Gamble Company
PuroClean
Residence Inn by Marriott
Ryder Charitable Foundation
Starbucks Coffee Company and
Starbucks Foundation
Sunoco
Tyson Foods, Inc.
U.S. Bank
Western Union Foundation
The contributions of these companies and foundations help the American Red Cross respond immediately
to individuals and families affected by disaster, regardless of cost, by donating before disaster strikes. Each
of these organizations has made a financial commitment to Red Cross disaster relief, which enables us to
provide shelter, food, emotional support and other assistance to those in need.
Annual Disaster Giving Program Partners--$500,000 or More Annually*
Disaster Responder Members--$250,000-$499,000 Annually*
* As of June 30, 2013
2013 Annual Report 23
Sources of Financial Support ­ Fiscal Year 2013
Products & Services $2,162.9  63%
Contributions 1,077.2  31%
Investment Income & Other 195.8  6%
Operating
Revenues
and Gains
(in millions)
Total $3,435.9
Contributions
(in millions)
Total $1,077.2
Operating
Expenses
(in millions)
Total $3,380.5

Contributions for Domestic
& International Relief, General Operations,
and Endowment $927.2  86%
United Way and Combined
Federated Campaign 95.5  9%
Donated Materials and Services 54.5  5%
Biomedical Services $2,164.8  64%
Domestic Disaster Services 467.3  13%
Health and Safety Services 216.2  6%
Fundraising 189.4  6%
Management and General 136.3  4%
International Relief and Development Services 92.7  3%
Community Services 57.2  2%
Service to the Armed Forces 56.6  2%
American Red Cross operating funds come from three main funding
sources: contributions, revenues from products and services, and
investment income and other sources. Total Red Cross operating
revenues and gains for fiscal year 2013 were $3,435.9 million.
Red Cross total expenses were $3,380.5 million.
NOTE: The complete audited consolidated financial statements of the American Red Cross for fiscal 2013 may be obtained online at redcross.org/pubs
or by contacting the American Red Cross Inquiry Center, 43118th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20006, (202) 303-4498.
24
American Red Cross Leadership
Board of Governors
(as of October 31, 2013)
Honorary Chairman
Barack H. Obama
President of the United States
Chairman
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
CEO
Pace Communications, Inc.
Greensboro, North Carolina
Vice Chairmen
Joseph B. Pereles, Esq.
Laurence E. Paul, M.D.
Melanie R. Sabelhaus
Emeritus Officials
George M. Elsey
President Emeritus
Board of Governors Members
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
CEO
Pace Communications, Inc.
Greensboro, North Carolina
Afsaneh M. Beschloss
President and CEO
The Rock Creek Group
Washington, D.C.
Paula E. Boggs, Esq.
Founder, Boggs Media LLC
Sammamish, Washington
Richard K. Davis
Chairman, President and CEO
U.S. Bancorp
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Allan I. Goldberg, M.D.
Leader, U.S. Advocacy and
Professional Affairs
U.S. Medical Affairs
Merck & Co., Inc.
North Wales, Pennsylvania
James W. Keyes
Chairman and CEO
Wild Oats Marketing, LLC
Addison, Texas
Joseph E. Madison
Broadcaster
Sirius XM Radio, Inc.
Washington, D.C.
Gail J. McGovern
President and CEO
American Red Cross
Washington, D.C.
Judith McGrath
Former Chairman and CEO
MTV Networks Inc.
New York, New York
Suzanne Nora Johnson
Former Vice Chairman
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Santa Monica, California
Richard C. Patton
Founder and Chief Manager
Courage Capital Management, LLC
Nashville, Tennessee
Laurence E. Paul, M.D.
Managing Principal
Laurel Crown Partners LLC
Los Angeles, California
Joseph B. Pereles, Esq.
Vice President Development
and General Counsel
Drury Hotels Company, LLC
St. Louis, Missouri
Maj. Gen. Josue J. Robles, Jr. (Ret.)
President and CEO
USAA
San Antonio, Texas
Melanie R. Sabelhaus
Entrepreneur and Philanthropist
Naples, Florida
Tina M. Schiel
Executive Vice President--Stores
Target Corporation
Minneapolis, Minnesota
H. Marshall Schwarz
Retired Chairman and CEO
U.S. Trust Corporation
New York, New York
Steven H. Wunning
Group President
Caterpillar, Inc.
Peoria, Illinois
Corporate Officers
(as of October 31, 2013)
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter
Chairman
Gail J. McGovern
President and CEO
Dale P. Bateman
Chief Audit Executive
David Meltzer
General Counsel and
Chief International Officer
Brian J. Rhoa
Chief Financial Officer
Jennifer L. Hawkins
Corporate Secretary
Executive Leadership
John Crary
Chief Information Officer
Suzanne C. DeFrancis
Chief Public Affairs Officer
Gerald DeFrancisco
President, Humanitarian Services
Peggy Dyer
Chief Marketing Officer
Shaun P. Gilmore
President, Biomedical Services
Melissa B. Hurst
Chief Human Resources Officer
Kevin Jessar
Corporate Ombudsman
Neal Litvack
Chief Development Officer
Jack McMaster
President, Preparedness and
Health and Safety Services
Floyd Pitts
Chief Diversity Officer
25
2013 Annual Report
Learn More About the
American Red Cross
To learn more, or to find out how
to donate time, money or blood,
visit redcross.org.
Follow us on Facebook
(facebook.com/redcross)
and Twitter (@redcross.).
This report was produced
by the Communications
Department of the
American Red Cross
Roger Lowe
Senior Vice President
Communications
Brian McArthur
Vice President
Communications Operations
Carol Robinson
Director, Creative Resources
Leslie A. Smith
Writer
John Rodgers
Art Director
Terence Feheley
Editor
Jeanette Ortiz-Osorio
Photography Manager
Patricia Jenkins
Print Production Coordinator
Photography Credits
All photos are property of the
American Red Cross unless
otherwise noted.
Cover: Les Stone. Inside cover:
Jason Colston. Page 1: c Rhoda
Baer. Page 2: Daniel Cima. Page 3:
Emmett Oldson (left), American Red
Cross (right). Page 4: Courtesy of
the O'Donnell family. Page 5: Jason
Colston. Page 6: Talia Frenkel. Page
7: Jason Colston. Page 8: Chuck
Haupt. Page 9: Cuban Red Cross.
Page 10: Niki Clark. Page 1
1: Niki
Clark. Page 13: Mike Murdock.
Page 14: Courtesy of Marquita
Gaines. Page 15: Daniel P. Fox.
Page 16: Jody Lane. Page 17:
Carl Manning (top), courtesy of
George Hickman (bottom). Page
21: ImageLink. Page 25: Les Stone
(left), Talia Frenkel (right).
Left: Husband and wife team Henry and Susan Winters
drive an emergency response vehicle through Long
Island, N.Y., delivering meals and supplies to help
those affected by Superstorm Sandy. Right: Father and
son prepare to clear debris from the front yard of their
home in Moore, Okla., hard hit by tornadoes.
A501-13
© 2013 The American National Red Cross.
The American Red Cross name and emblem are registered trademarks of the American Red Cross.
redcross.org
