GMF
2010
annual report
convening | grantmaking | research | networking
The German Marshall Fund of the United States (GMF) is
a non-partisan American public policy and grantmaking
institution dedicated to promoting better understanding
and cooperation between North America and Europe on
transatlantic and global issues.
GMF does this by supporting individuals and institutions
working in the transatlantic sphere, by convening leaders
and members of the policy and business communities, by
contributing research and analysis on transatlantic topics,
and by providing exchange opportunities to foster renewed
commitment to the transatlantic relationship. In addition, GMF
supports a number of initiatives to strengthen democracies.
Founded in 1972 through a gift from Germany as a permanent
memorial to Marshall Plan assistance, GMF maintains a
strong presence on both sides of the Atlantic. In addition
to its headquarters in Washington, DC, GMF has six offices
in Europe: Berlin, Paris, Brussels, Belgrade, Ankara,
and Bucharest. GMF also has smaller representations in
Bratislava, Turin, and Stockholm.
2010 annual report 1
2 letter from the president
30 partnerships
32 financial statements
34 gmf on the web
tableof contents
4 CONVENING
Brussels Forum
Halifax International Security Forum
Stockholm China Forum
India Forum
Transatlantic Forum on Migration and Integration
Mediterranean Strategy Group
Wider Atlantic Program
Cities in Transition
Detroit-Torino Partnership
Congress-Bundestag Forum Dayton
Cancun Climate Conference
Bringing Discussions on the Eurozone Crisis to
Washington
Immigration Events Series
Hosting Transatlantic Leaders
20 NETWORKING
Marshall Memorial Fellowship
2010 American Marshall Memorial Fellows
2010 European Marshall Memorial Fellows
Marshall Memorial Fellowship Alumni
Marshall Forum
Climate Study Tour
Alliance of Civilizations International Fellowship
Transatlantic Cities Network
APSA Congressional Fellowship
Congressional Study Tour to Discuss Global
Economic Challenges
Peter R. Weitz Prize Awarded
Manfred Wörner Seminar
26 GRANTMAKING
Balkan Trust for Democracy
Black Sea Trust for Regional Cooperation
Trust for Civil Society in Central and Eastern
Europe
Strategic Grantmaking
Immigration Grantmaking
Economic Policy Program Grantmaking
14 RESEARCH
Transatlantic Academy
Transatlantic Trends 2010
Transatlantic Trends: Immigration 2010
GMF Fellows Program
Transatlantic Take Series
Climate Change/Security Paper Series
On Turkey, Ukraine, Wider Europe, and Asia Series
Mediterranean Policy Papers
Harnessing Market-Based Solutions to Food Security
Accessing GMF’s Publications Through Scribd
german marshall fund
2
From the eurozone’s tumbles to popu-
lism’s rise, from flare-ups in North Korea
to crackdowns in Belarus, I conclude
two things from the last year — that the
world’s problems only seem to grow in
size, scope, and urgency, and that the
transatlantic allies, though not perfect by
any stretch, still offer the best hope for
addressing intractable problems, especially
when they work in concert.
Each new month in 2010 seemed to offer
more hand-wringing and despair, from a
deflated climate community starting the
year with little hope for progress to arrests
of opposition candidates on the streets of
Minsk in December.
Country after country on the European
Union’s southern and western flanks faced
austerity measures, economic meltdowns,
and supranational bailouts. Heated parti-
san rhetoric in the United States obscured
the hard choices that the Obama adminis-
tration and Congress (still) need to make in
order to right the economic ship of state.
A potent strain of populism bubbled up
from the right both in the United States
and in many European countries. Anti-
immigrant and anti-government appeals
appeared on both sides of the Atlantic,
often in reaction to bad economic news.
Whether it was North Korea, Iran, or
Afghanistan, developments in the world’s
most troubling spots showed the limits of
individual countries’ power to deal with
dictators, unpredictable regimes, or unreli-
able leaders.
It is easy to be pessimistic — and much
harder to be optimistic — about the state
of the world. It is even more difficult at
times to be positive about the state of the
transatlantic relationship.
But this, I feel, is why GMF is as impor-
tant as ever. We will always work on the
bilateral relationship (see: the economy),
and on the not-quite-complete “Europe
whole and free” project (see: Belarus,
Moldova, the Western Balkans). But newer
to the relationship is how the transatlantic
allies deal — or don’t — with China, India,
climate change, immigration, and a host of
other regional and global challenges.
From where I sit in Washington, from
visits to our European offices, and from
my travels to Asia and the Middle East,
it is clear to me that the work GMF does
to strengthen transatlantic cooperation to
address these newer theaters of operation
has never been more vital.
GMF continues to identify and promote
new areas of cooperation for the transat-
lantic allies. We have begun work on what
we call Southern Atlanticism — including
South America and the Maghreb — as a
way to expand the traditional scope of the
letter
from the
president
2010 annual report 3
relationship. At the annual Halifax Inter-
national Security Forum, we featured a
panel on securing the “global commons”
— essentially those spaces in-between,
including the skies, sea lanes, space, and
cyberspace.
With political turmoil in the Middle East
and North Africa continuing in 2011, GMF
will be a reliable contributor to the debate,
whether through our Mediterranean Policy
Program or by leveraging our considerable
experience in working with civil society
during transition times in Eastern Europe.
And work we are doing through several
programs, including the Asia Program,
the Economic Policy Program, and
the in-house Transatlantic Academy, is
addressing different aspects in a “global
shift” of multilateral power, whether from
the G8 expanding to the G20, or from a
Western-centric power base to one that
includes China and India.
This move toward “global transatlanticism”
is not new for GMF, but our momentum
continues in that direction.
I hope that you will continue to engage with
us in 2011 through our various convening,
grantmaking, publishing, or networking
activities. Our redesigned website and our
Facebook and Twitter communities make
it easier than ever to keep up with what we
are doing and where we are going.
This message would not be complete
without expressing our gratitude for the
support of and collaboration with our part-
ners, whose commitment to GMF and to
a strong transatlantic relationship is critical
to making it through this difficult period in
world history and sowing the seeds that
will sprout new areas — and eras — of
cooperation.
Among other things we look forward to in
2011, we are opening an office in Warsaw,
Poland, as we expand our presence in
Europe to seven offices and three repre-
sentations. Despite outright reasons for
pessimism, we are bullish on the trans-
atlantic relationship and are prepared to
deepen our investment in it.
Thank you for your continued support of
and interest in GMF. I hope you join us in
our optimism for the transatlantic relation-
ship in 2011, and join us in our work to
strengthen it.
Craig Kennedy
President
Ashley
VonClausburg
german marshall fund
4
Brussels Forum
Brussels Forum celebrated its fifth anni-
versary in 2010. This year, GMF brought
together more than 350 North Ameri-
can and European government officials,
scholars, journalists, and business leaders
to debate important transatlantic issues.
The discussions focused on the economic
crisis, the future of NATO, climate change,
Afghanistan, Iran, the Balkans, and a broad
spectrum of additional global challenges. 1
The 2010 Forum managed to assemble
the most high-level and diverse group of
speakers yet, including European Commis-
sion President José Manuel Barroso,
President of the European Council Herman
Van Rompuy, President of the European
Parliament Jerzy Buzek, EU High Repre-
sentative for Foreign Affairs and Security
Policy Baroness Catherine Ashton, World
Bank President Robert Zoellick, World
Trade Organization Director General Pascal
Lamy, NATO Secretary General Anders
Fogh Rasmussen, Belgian Prime Minister
Yves Leterme, Estonian President Toomas
Ilves, Croatian President Ivo Josipovi ´
c, 2
Latvian President Valdis Zatlers, Serbian
President Boris Tadi ´
c, and a delegation
from the U.S. Congress, led by Senators
Robert Casey and George Voinovich.
As in past years, GMF published a series
of papers to stimulate further discussion at
the conference. Among the nine papers,
authors addressed topics including Turkey,
multilateralism, southern Atlanticism,
climate policy, and the rise of Asia. All are
available at
www.brusselsforum.org
Alongside Brussels Forum, GMF host-
ed the first Young Professionals Summit
(YPS), a joint initiative by the Young
Transatlantic Network of GMF and Young
Professionals in Foreign Policy. The
Summit was a unique opportunity for
70 young professionals to meet leading
figures in global politics and discuss the
most pressing issues on the transatlantic
agenda. It encouraged the participation of
a younger generation from the European
institutions, media, the business sector,
NGOs, think tanks, and NATO in finding
solutions to global problems.
Brussels Forum was organized by GMF in
partnership with the Federal Authorities of
Belgium, the Egmont Institute, and Daimler.
Additional sponsors included the European
Union Delegation to the United States,
Eli Lilly and Company, and BNP Paribas
Fortis, with further support from the Union
of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of
Turkey, the Ministry of Defence Republic of
Latvia, and the Japan Foundation Center
for Global Partnership.
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Rasmussen, MacKay, Albright,
Mladenov now talking about NATO
#BF10 http://bit.ly/doDMzO
27 Mar
2	 bueti Reinhard Bütikofer
At #BF10 presidents of Serbia
+ Croatia share panel with Sen.
Voinovich + Commissioner Fuele.
Almost historic! Voinovich obviously
moved.
27 Mar
convening
B D
A
C
Michael
Creagen
Gaetan
Miclotte
Gaetan
Miclotte
Gaetan
Miclotte
2010 annual report 5
Halifax International Security Forum 1
Despite weather challenges, more than
300 global leaders and opinion makers in
politics, government, business, academia,
and media from 45 countries attended
the 2010 Forum to discuss pressing
global security and defense issues, such
as the future of NATO, nuclear prolifera-
tion, homeland security, statebuilding, and
responses to humanitarian disasters.
Participants included NATO Supreme Allied
Commander Transformation Stéphane
Abrial, Danish Minister of Defense
Gitte Lillelund Bech, Canadian Minis-
ter of National Defence Peter MacKay,
Commander of NORTHCOM and NORAD
James Winnefeld, U.S. Under Secretary of
Defense Michele Flournoy, U.S. Secretary
of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano,
Stanford University Professor of Political
Science Condoleezza Rice, 2 Canadian
Minister of Public Safety Victor Toews,
Norwegian Deputy Minister of Foreign
Affairs Espen Barth Eide, Minister of State
for Security in the British Home Office
Pauline Neville-Jones, Parliamentary
State Secretary in the German Ministry of
Defense Christian Schmidt, Senior Pales-
tinian Negotiator Mohamed Shtayeh, and a
delegation of six U.S. Senators, 3 led by
co-chairs John McCain (R-AZ) and Mark
Udall (D-CO).
In order to further encourage thoughtful
discussion, GMF published a series of
six essays covering the future of NATO,
nuclear proliferation, the security implica-
tions of the financial crisis, the rise of India
and China, the Middle East peace process,
and the enduring role of the United States
and the transatlantic relationship.
Local, national, and international media
outlets covered the Forum, including the
Associated Press, Reuters, The Washing-
ton Post, The International Herald Tribune,
CNN, The Globe & Mail, and others.
The Halifax International Security Forum
is organized by GMF in cooperation with
the Government of Canada, the Canadian
Department of National Defence, and the
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. For
more information, visit
www.halifaxforum.org
A	 President of the European Parliament Jerzy Buzek, U.S. Senator George Voinovich, and former U.S. Secretary
of State Madeleine Albright meet in the halls at the 2010 Brussels Forum.
B	 Gitte Lillelund Bech, Denmark’s first female Minister of Defence, asks a question during a Brussels Forum
panel.
C	 European Commission President José Manuel Barroso provided the Brussels Forum keynote address.
D	 U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) were among the
United States Congressional delegation to the Halifax International Security Forum.
E	 Israeli Minister of Defense Ehud Barak and U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano provide
their thoughts on domestic security issues at the Halifax Forum.
F	 Former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice and Canadian Minister of Defence Peter McKay speak during
a Halifax Forum panel.
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Participants starting to arrive in
Halifax today for #HISF. Hard to
believe it starts tomorrow!
4 Nov
2	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Condoleezza Rice talking @ #HISF
with Roger Cohen, Peter MacKay and
others - watch online now
http://bit.ly/bnoORE
6 Nov
3	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Join The German Marshall Fund for
a conversation with Senator McCain
@ 10.30 Halifax Time (09.30 EST) -
Stream at http://bit.ly/bx986o #HSF
7 Nov
E
F
Michael
Creagen
Michael
Creagen
german marshall fund
6
A	 Participants discuss Iran at the
seventh Stockholm China Forum in
June.
Stockholm China Forum
The sixth Stockholm China Forum was
held on January 17 and 18, 2010, with the
support of the STINT foundation, Riks-
bankens Juibeleumsfond, and the Swed-
ish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Forum
brings together policymakers, intellectuals,
journalists, and business representatives
from Europe, the United States, and Asia,
for an ongoing and systematic dialogue to
assess the impact of China’s rise and its
implications for European and U.S. foreign,
economic, and security policy. The agenda
for the January edition included discus-
sions about the future of climate policy
after Copenhagen, exit strategies from the
global economic crisis, China’s national
security strategy beyond Taiwan, and the
China-India relationship.
The seventh Stockholm China Forum was
held on June 12 and 13, 2010, again with
the support of the Riksbankens Juibeleums-
fond and the Swedish Ministry of Foreign
Affairs. Topics discussed included Chinese
foreign policy after the financial crisis, how
to improve China’s relationship with the
West, the Iranian nuclear crisis, and ways to
achieve economic rebalancing.
India Forum
India Forum convenes policymakers,
intellectuals, journalists, and business
representatives from Europe, the United
States, and India twice a year to establish
networks across diverse communities and
facilitate cooperation and coordination
through informal discussion. On February
20 and 21, GMF held the inaugural India
Forum in London, in partnership with the
Legatum Institute and the Swedish Ministry
of Foreign Affairs. As well as broader
discussions on relations between Europe,
the United States, and India, sessions
included conversations on reforming global
governance architecture, the rise of Asia,
the unfolding situations in Afghanistan and
Pakistan, the future of the Indian economy,
maritime security, and counterterrorism.
On October 1-2, GMF held its second
India Forum, also in partnership with the
Legatum Institute and the Swedish Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, in Stockholm. Over
two days, participants debated issues
such as India’s position in a changing
world, cooperation in securing the global
commons, climate negotiations and energy
security, the possibility of closer economic
and commercial ties, the trajectories of
Afghanistan and Pakistan, the implications
of China’s rise, and India-Europe relations.
convening
A
Christina
Hawley
2010 annual report 7
B	 Transatlantic Forum on Migration and Integration fellows
Koko Warner and Chinedu Onyejelem contribute to the
TFMI meeting in Izmir, Turkey.
C	 GMF Senior fellow Ian Lesser and former NATO
deputy secretary general Alessandro Minuto Rizzo at a
Mediterranean Strategy Group meeting in Rome.
Transatlantic Forum on Migration and Integration
GMF, in partnership with Robert Bosch
Stiftung, held the 2010 Transatlantic Forum
on Migration and Integration (TFMI) from
July 7-11 in Izmir, Turkey. In its third year,
TFMI assembled a group of 65 future
decision-makers in the field of immigration
and integration from Europe, the United
States, and sending countries, and has
established itself as a leading platform
for exchange on crucial immigration and
integration issues.
After past years in Germany and the United
States, which are societies predominantly
receiving immigrants, hosting TFMI in
Turkey offered an extended focus since
Turkey is a significant country of origin for
migrants in Europe. At the same time, it is
also a major destination country and plays
an important role in transit migration to the
European Union.
Apart from the annual conference, TFMI
has developed into a sustainable network
that supports multiple networking activi-
ties and formats throughout the year. TFMI
Fellows organize spin-off projects in all
parts of the world, including study tours,
regional meetings, academic exchanges,
and professional exchanges.
Mediterranean Strategy Group
Since 2009, GMF and its partners have
held a series of events with related publica-
tions and outreach, all intended to raise the
profile of the Mediterranean in the trans-
atlantic policy debate. The focus is on key
themes of concern to governments and the
private sector, including regional integration,
energy, and maritime commerce and secu-
rity. The program aims to bring the debate
on Mediterranean issues to a larger policy
audience on both sides of the Atlantic, in
particular in North America, where Mediter-
ranean strategy is an underdeveloped topic,
and in the southern Mediterranean, where
new approaches to regional cooperation
are sorely needed. GMF’s Mediterranean
work is conducted in partnership with the
Compagnia di San Paolo, Enel SpA, OCP
Group, Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian, and
Fundação Luso-Americana.
The Mediterranean Strategy Group is at
the center of GMF’s growing Mediter-
ranean Policy Program. Meetings of the
Group alternate between Genoa and other
Mediterranean venues. Discussion themes
have included the challenge of regional
integration in North Africa and the rapidly
changing Mediterranean energy scene.
The third full meeting of the Mediterranean
Strategy Group was held in Genoa, Octo-
ber 24-26, 2010, on “Maritime Commerce
and Security in the Mediterranean and
Adjacent Waters,” in cooperation with the
City of Genoa. The debate stressed the
role of the Mediterranean as a strategic
commons, and the growing economic and
security connections between the Medi-
terranean and other areas, including the
Atlantic basin and the Indian Ocean.
C
B
Leonardo
Puccini
Tom
Wassmann
german marshall fund
8
Wider Atlantic Program
For the last 50 years, at least, the center of
gravity in transatlantic relations has been
firmly rooted in the Northern Hemisphere.
But the next decade is likely to bring a
significant rebalancing within the Atlantic
space, with southern Atlantic partners,
including Brazil and Southern and West
Africa, playing a larger role. Maritime,
energy, and human security polices will
be at the center of the debate. In 2010, in
partnership with Morocco’s OCP Group,
GMF launched a significant new program
of convening and research to explore
these emerging Atlantic issues. Activities
will include an Atlantic Forum in Morocco,
and studies on food security, energy, the
geopolitics of new infrastructure projects.
Cities in Transition
From December 4-12, 2010, the Compar-
ative Domestic Policy (CDP) Program, in
partnership with the Surdna Foundation
and the Kresge Foundation, led practi-
tioners and policymakers from five U.S.
Rust Belt cities on the first annual “Cities
in Transition” study tour. The delegation,
which included city planners, journalists,
elected officials, and other civic leaders
from Detroit, Flint, Cleveland, Youngstown,
and Pittsburgh, met with political leaders
and planners in Leipzig, Germany, and
Manchester, England, to explore those
cities’ strategies for revitalizing vacant and
underused land and buildings. In addition
to meetings with high-level counterparts in
city government, academia, and the private
sector, the delegation visited redeveloping
neighborhoods and economic develop-
ment sites. Participants identified key
elements that could help move U.S. cities
forward including targeting investment
towards strategically identified neighbor-
hoods; bringing life to vacant properties
with innovative temporary uses; and utiliz-
ing public-private partnerships to maximize
both investment and support for a new
vision. The CDP program is developing a
series of follow up meetings and network
expansion strategies for spring 2011 and
beyond.
convening
Participants in the Cities in Transition
study tour in December 2010 were
able to explore Leipzig, Germany.
On the left, former mayor of Leipzig,
Hinrich Lehman-Grube with Delrico
Loyd of the Flint City Council. On the
right, Andrew Butcher, CEO of GTECH;
Alan Mallach, senior non-resident
fellow at the Brookings Institute; and
Lavea Brachman, Executive Director,
Greater Ohio Policy Center.
John
Gallagher
John
Gallagher
2010 annual report 9
Detroit-Torino Partnership
From November 14-20, 2010, the CDP
program led the first of what will be three
annual study tours bringing civic leaders
from Detroit, Michigan, to Turin, Italy. GMF
worked closely with the Kresge Founda-
tion, Compagnia di San Paolo, the City of
Turin, and Torino Internazionale to orga-
nize the tour. The inaugural delegation of
Detroiters was led by Mayor David Bing
and included high-level policymakers and
thought leaders who were selected based
on their professional achievements, their
potential for establishing strong bilateral
relationships with counterparts in Turin,
and ability to engender lasting change in
Detroit. The focus of the trip was broad, in
order to give participants a comprehensive
overview of Turin’s regeneration strat-
egy and to help determine the project’s
objectives for the next two years. Accord-
ingly, the delegation examined how Turin’s
leadership developed and implemented
an urban strategic plan, repurposed and
redeveloped the urban and industrial land-
scape, and created and implemented
regional economic diversification strate-
gies, as well as the role of higher education
in the economy.
Congress-Bundestag Forum Dayton
The seventh annual Congress-Bundestag
Forum, a partnership with the Robert
Bosch Stiftung, took place July 16 – 20
in Dayton, Ohio, and Washington, DC,
under the leadership of Congressman Mike
Turner (R-OH), a longtime participant. Ten
members of the German Bundestag and
six U.S. Representatives participated in the
2010 conference. Roundtable discussions
in Dayton focused on a variety of topics,
including intelligence-sharing, economic
development, transatlantic security
concerns, and nuclear non-proliferation.
Ohio proved to be a fitting host for the
Forum given the strong trade relations
between Ohio and Germany. Ohio exports
many agricultural and manufactured goods
to Germany, while much of the manufac-
turing equipment used in Ohio is made in
Germany. The group of lawmakers had the
opportunity to tour Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base, which highlighted the work
being done in support of national security
and of U.S. coalition partners in NATO. The
Congress-Bundestag Forum concluded
in Washington, DC, where the members
of the Bundestag met with various U.S.
government agencies to discuss trade,
security, and foreign relations issues.
Congress-Bundestag Forum participants
were able to tour the Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base, as well as explore common
challenges through discussion. Here,
Ekin Deligöz, Eva Högl, and Otto Fricke,
all members of the German Bundestag;
U.S. Representative Michael Turner
(R-OH); and John LeLand, director of the
University of Dayton Research Institute.
Tamar Shapiro, CDP director; Valentino
Casfellani, former Turin mayor; Wendy
Jackson, Kresge Foundation; and
David Bing, mayor of Detroit were able
to discuss partnership opportunities
during the study tour.
Office
of
Rep.
Turner
Brent Riddle
U.S.
Air
Force
german marshall fund
10
Cancun Climate Conference 1
GMF sent a delegation to the UN climate
talks in Cancun, Mexico, in December
2010. The conference, a follow-up to the
2009 summit in Copenhagen, provided
important opportunities for GMF visibil-
ity, networking, and programming. GMF
hosted a reception, high-level dinner, and
side event, gave media interviews, and
networked with negotiators, congressional
staff, and other participants. Speakers
at GMF’s events included Karsten Sach,
deputy director general for international
cooperation, German Ministry for the
Environment, Nature Conservation, and
Nuclear Safety; Trig Talley, director for glob-
al change at the U.S. Department of State;
Elias Freig Delgado, coordinator of the
Mexican Ministry of Finance Special CO2
Task Force; Shalini Vajjhala, deputy assis-
tant administrator for international policy at
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency;
Norbert Gorissen, head of the Interna-
tional and EU Affairs Division in the Field of
Renewable Energies, German Ministry for
the Environment, Nature Conservation, and
Nuclear Safety; Sasanka Thilakasiri, asso-
ciate fellow, The Energy and Resources
Institute, India; and Ray Kopp, senior fellow
and director, Center for Climate and Elec-
tricity Policy, Resources for the Future.
Bringing Discussions on the Eurozone Crisis
to Washington
In October, Jean Pisani-Ferry, the director
of the Brussels based think tank Brue-
gel, presented his views on the internal
dynamics of the European sovereign debt
crises and his ideas for the way forward. At
the event titled “The Eurozone Crisis and
Implications for the Transatlantic Economic
Relationship,” Pisani-Ferry provided an
overview of the factors that contributed to
the crisis within the EU by stressing that
policy inconsistencies, related to regulatory
frameworks, supply side policies, and a
lack of integration within the single market,
significantly contributed to the rapid
erosion of stability within the eurozone.
The ensuing discussion with the audience
focused on the impact of the crisis on the
transatlantic economic partnership.
Immigration Events Series
In June and October, two event series
were launched in Washington and Berlin
that focused on key aspects of the broader
immigration and integration debate. Both
series are structured as off the record
lunch or dinner discussions with a select
group of high-level participants from the
immigration policy community in both
cities.
The series in Washington, Taking the
Immigration Debate Across Borders: GMF
Embassy Event Series, is conducted in
cooperation with select embassies in
Washington, DC. Events have been held
with the Canadian, Belgian, and British
embassies with speakers such as Sandra
Harder, Director General of Immigration
Policy for Citizenship and Immigration
Canada; Damian Green, U.K. Minister of
convening
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
What you need to know about
Cancun and climate negotiations,
from Thomas Legge: http://ping.
fm/d65zC
GMF staff members
Christina Elvers, Tessa
Paganini, and Andrew
Fishbein were among
thousands of participants at
the United Nations Climate
talks in Cancun.
Thomas
Legge
2010 annual report 11
State for Immigration; and Mark Hugo
Lopez, Associate Director, Pew Hispanic
Center. The first event of the Berlin series,
GMF’s Immigration Roundtables: A View
from Berlin, was held in December 2010
and featured Tamar Jacoby, president and
CEO of ImmigrationWorks USA. The event
focused on Tamar Jacoby’s GMF policy
brief “Selecting For Integration – What Role
For A Point System?,” which presents an
innovative and new U.S. policy idea to
admission and integration policy that was
received well by the German participants.
Three events in Berlin were held in
cooperation with the Friedrich-Naumann-
Stiftung für die Freiheit, Berlin, the politi-
cal foundation of the Liberal Party (FDP),
focused on the impact of immigration on
social resources, specifically on science
and knowledge transfer, the economy, and
the welfare system and social services.
In October 2010, in cooperation with the
Vodafone Foundation Germany and the
Heinrich Böll Foundation in Berlin, a confer-
ence was held focusing on social mobility
and social advancement in a transatlantic
comparison, with an emphasis on immi-
grants’ social advancement on both sides
of the Atlantic.
Hosting Transatlantic Leaders
Throughout 2010, GMF provided a venue
for a number of North American and
European leaders to address gatherings
of policy professionals in Washington and
European capitals.
On January 20, Carl Bildt, Swedish foreign
minister; Sergey Markedonov, director of
the Department for Problems of Ethnic
Relations at the Institute for Political and
Military Analysis in Moscow; and GMF
Brussels Executive Director Ron Asmus
participated in a discussion about the war
in Georgia and Asmus’ new book on the
same subject entitled, A Little War that
Shook the World: Georgia, Russia, and the
Future of the West.
With growing public concern about
Afghanistan 1 in both the United States
and Germany, on January 22, GMF
sponsored an America Abroad Media town
hall event with German Defense Minister
Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg and the late
Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, U.S.
special envoy to Afghanistan and Paki-
stan, to discuss the critical issues affecting
Afghanistan, NATO, and the transatlantic
alliance.
On February 18, GMF’s Balkan Trust for
Democracy (BTD), 2 in cooperation with
the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence,
hosted EU High Representative for Foreign
and Security Policy Baroness Catherine
A	 NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen outlined his vision
for NATO’s new strategic concept at a GMF speech in Brussels,
Belgium.
B	 GMF vice president for programs, Ivan Vejvoda escorts EU High
Representative for Foreign and Security Policy Baroness Catherine
Ashton into a Serbian civil society meeting.
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Busy day today in DC. 2 events on
CapHill (climate, econ) and sponsor
for @AAMRadioTV Holbrooke/
zuGuttenberg debate...
http://bit.ly/4HAI04
25 Jan
2	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Lady Ashton speaks at GMF civil
society meeting in Belgrade
http://bit.ly/cZiYVR
19 Feb
A
B
GMF
GMF
german marshall fund
12
Ashton, along with other prominent repre-
sentatives of civil society for a meeting in
Serbia. In a press conference prior to the
discussion, Ashton said that dialogue with
civil society is an essential element of the
EU’s engagement around the world. She
highlighted that the EU believes the future
of the Western Balkans lies in its eventual
accession to the EU, and that commitment
to reforms and their implementation is of
the utmost importance.
On April 30, GMF’s Washington, DC, office
hosted the Honorable Radoslaw Sikor-
ski, Polish minister of foreign affairs, for a
roundtable luncheon discussion. Sikorski
discussed a range of issues including
Poland’s relationships with Russia and
Ukraine, the EU and its economy, and the
upcoming EU Polish presidency.
On October 1, in partnership with the
Congressional Study Group on Germany
and the American Institute for Contem-
porary German Studies, GMF hosted a
discussion with World Bank President
Robert Zoellick, who had been a U.S.
representative to the “Two-plus-Four”
process in 1990, to reflect on the 20th
anni-
versary of German reunification. Zoellick
suggested the rapid design of the post-
Cold War order, between the signing of the
“Two-plus-Four” treaty and actual unifica-
tion, was principally down to the significant
impetus for change found on the ground
in Germany at the time. Despite the public
urge for unification, he explained that the
United States was trying to build political
structures for Europe and Germany that
would stand the test of time.
On October 8, 1 NATO Secretary Gener-
al Anders Fogh Rasmussen outlined his
vision for NATO’s new strategic concept
at a GMF speech in Brussels, Belgium,
and cautioned against deep defense
budget cuts among members. Rasmussen
outlined three areas of change for NATO.
He said it needs to modernize its defense
and deterrence capability to accommodate
new threats. It also needs to update its
crisis management capabilities to respond
to situations like the one in Afghanistan
and to develop its global partnerships to
build cooperative security.
With Russian parliamentary elections
scheduled for the end of next year and
convening
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
NATO SecGen unveils new strategic
concept tomorrow at GMF event in
Brussels. Watch live online: http://bit.
ly/cjJyyb http://fb.me/uVZ2ulMO
7 Oct
C
A
B D
Ashley
VonClausburg
Ashley
VonClausburg
Ashley
VonClausburg
GMF
2010 annual report 13
presidential elections set for early 2012 as
backdrop, GMF’s Washington, DC, office
hosted a discussion on Russia’s political
scene with Mikhail Kasyanov, former prime
minister of the Russian Federation on
October 19. Kasyanov described the politi-
cal challenges facing Russia today, explain-
ing that the controversial steps Vladimir
Putin took following the Beslan massacre
in 2004 played a key role in making it
significantly harder for opposition parties
to operate in Russia. While suggesting
that many Russians had been hopeful that
Dmitri Medvedev’s 2008 appointment to
the presidency would lead to positive politi-
cal change, he said that after two years of
inaction, disappointment was beginning to
set in. He advocated a reset policy with the
United States that is more “principled and
intelligent,” one that does not merely seek
to avoid confrontation, but that is also criti-
cal of Russia’s “misbehavior” in areas like
human rights and democracy.
Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs
Kostyantyn Gryshchenko outlined the
philosophy and some of the strategic goals
of his country’s foreign policy on October
26 during “Ukraine: A New President, a
New Foreign Policy?” The session, hosted
by GMF’s Brussels office along with the
European Policy Centre and The EU Ukraine
Business Council, focused on the direc-
tion of Ukraine’s international affairs since
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych’s February
2010 election. Gryshchenko underlined
that Ukraine is pursuing a pragmatic foreign
policy that seeks to position the country as
a bridge — between Europe, the United
States and Russia — and said that foreign
policy decisions are made strictly in accor-
dance with Ukraine’s interests.
Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski’s
first official visit to Washington, DC, in
the United States as president came at a
German Marshall Fund-organized event
at the historic Willard Hotel on December
8. Komorowski arrived from a meeting
at the White House with U.S. President
Barack Obama. In a speech peppered
with colorful anecdotes and humorous
asides, Komorowski spoke of the “luck” of
the Polish people, but also of the coun-
try’s difficult history sandwiched between
Germany and Russia. Komorowski had
hosted Russian President Dmitri Medvedev
in Warsaw earlier that week. 1
A	 Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski discussed Poland’s relations with Russia and other issues.
B	 World Bank President Robert Zoellick reflects on the 20th
anniversary of German reunification.
C	 Senior Transatlantic Fellow Peter Van Praagh introduces former prime minister of the Russian Federation,
Mikhail Kasyanov, who went on to describe Russia’s current political challenges.
D	 GMF Senior Fellow Pavol Demes listens as Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs Kostyantyn Gryshchenko
outlines his country’s foreign policy priorities.
E	 GMF hosted Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski’s first official visit to Washington, DC.
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Webcast — Polish President
Bronislaw Komorowski’s first policy
speech in Washington — LIVE NOW
@ http://bit.ly/hUtBEQ
E
Will
Bohlen
german marshall fund
14
Transatlantic Academy
The Transatlantic Academy serves as a
forum for a select group of scholars from
both sides of the Atlantic, and from differ-
ent academic and policy disciplines, to
examine a single set of issues. Working
together from a transatlantic and interdis-
ciplinary perspective, Academy fellows use
research, publications, and ideas to make
policy-relevant contributions to debates
facing the transatlantic community.
On June 10, 2010, in Istanbul, Turkey, the
Transatlantic Academy, in partnership with
the Istanbul Policy Center, held a one-
day conference to close out its second
academic year and launch the Acad-
emy’s report Getting to Zero: Turkey,
Its Neighbors, and the West. Written
collaboratively by Transatlantic
Academy fellows, Getting to Zero
is a report from a multi-disciplinary
study evaluating Turkey’s evolving
global and regional role, internal
change in Turkey, and how these
affect the transatlantic relation-
ship. Academy fellows spent
10 months in Washington, DC,
collaborating on this report
and took study trips to the Middle
East, the Black Sea region, and Turkey.
The theme for the third (2010-2011)
academic year is “Global Shift: the Trans-
atlantic Community and the New Geopoli-
tics.” Throughout the year, the Academy
will consider how broader changes in the
global political and economic order, with a
particular emphasis on the rise of China,
will affect the role of the transatlantic states
and societies in the world. On Septem-
ber 28, the Transatlantic Academy held a
conference, “Global Shift: Implications of
a Post-Western World,” to mark the open-
ing of the year and to welcome its third
generation of fellows.
The 2010-2011 fellows are:
Daniel Deudney
Johns Hopkins University, United States
James Goldgeier
George Washington University,
United States
Hanns Maull
University of Trier, Germany
Stefan Schirm
Ruhr University of Bochum, Germany
Soo Yeon Kim
National University of Singapore
Iskander Rehman
Institute of Political Sciences, Science
Po, France
The fellows participated in a study tour to
Beijing, China, and Seoul, South Korea in
October to gain deeper insights into the
economic, security, and global gover-
nance implications of the shift of power
from west to east. The group held a series
of high-level meetings with Chinese and
Korean academics and policymakers, as
well as western diplomats, journalists, and
nonprofit leaders. The fellows will continue
to organize and take part in academic
conferences throughout the year, and will
spend February and March completing
their collaborative report, with the release
in May and June 2011.
The Transatlantic Academy is an initiative
of GMF, the ZEIT-Stiftung Ebelin und Gerd
Bucerius, the Robert Bosch Stiftung, and
the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation.
In addition, the Academy has received
funding from the Transatlantic Program of
the Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany through funds of the European
Recovery Program (ERP) of the Federal
Ministry of Economics and Technology, and
the Compagnia di San Paolo.
research
2010 annual report 15
Transatlantic Trends 2010 1
Transatlantic Trends 2010 — a project of
GMF and the Compagnia di San Paolo
(Italy), with additional support from the
Fundação Luso-Americana, the Fundación
BBVA, and the Communitas Foundation
— measures broad public opinion in the
United States, Turkey, and 11 European
Union countries through interviews with
more than 13,000 people. For the ninth
consecutive year, participants were asked
their views on each other and on global
threats, foreign policy objectives, world
leadership, and multilateral institutions. The
survey was released on September 15,
and the key findings included:
The Obama Puzzle: The Whole Is
more than the Sum of its Parts
Transatlantic Trends 2010 found that Presi-
dent Obama is still viewed more positively
in Europe (78 percent, down from 83
percent in 2009 for 11 EU countries) than
the United States (52 percent). However,
fewer than half of Europeans responded
positively when asked specifically about
his handling of Afghanistan and Iran.
Unlike Europeans, Americans have similar
or higher approval rates for many of his
specific policies. The majority of Americans
approved of his policies toward Russia (61
percent), climate change (56 percent), and
Afghanistan (54 percent).
A Crisis of the Euro, Not the EU
There was little support for Europe’s
common currency in the countries
surveyed that use the euro. When asked
whether using the euro has been a good
or bad thing for their country’s economy,
almost all majorities in the eurozone
sample responded negatively. However,
more than half of the EU respondents (57
percent) felt that economic difficulties in
Europe should lead to greater commitment
to build a stronger European Union.
A Continuing Divide on
Transatlantic Security
As in previous years, the United States was
the only country where a slight majority
of respondents (51 percent) felt optimistic
about stabilizing the situation in Afghani-
stan. Only 23 percent of EU respondents
were optimistic. However, this year’s
survey shows that majorities or plurali-
ties in all countries surveyed, including
62 percent in the EU and 77 percent in
the United States, still support NATO
being prepared to act outside of Europe
to defend members from threats to their
security.
Different Transatlantic Views
on the Rise of Asia
EU and U.S. respondents were divided
about the role Asia would play in global
affairs. Seventy-one percent of respon-
dents in the United States found it very
likely that China will exert strong leader-
ship in the future, while only 34 percent of
Europeans thought the same scenario is
very likely.
Turkey and the West:
Drifting Away
In 2004, 73 percent of the Turkish respon-
dents said membership would be a good
thing, but support has dropped to 38
percent by 2010. A plurality of Turks (48
percent) were not concerned about Iran
acquiring nuclear weapons, in sharp
contrast with EU (79 percent) and U.S.
(86 percent) respondents who were
concerned. In addition, the percentage of
Turks who said Turkey should act in closest
cooperation with countries in the Middle
East on international matters doubled to 20
percent from 2009. This was accompanied
by a nine-point decline in those who said
Turkey should cooperate with EU countries
(13 percent).
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 politico POLITICO
Europe still loves Obama more.
http://politi.co/9Ej28D
15 Sep
SPIEGEL_English SPIEGEL English
Trans-Atlantic Gap: Study Finds
Growing EU Skepticism of
Afghanistan War... –
http://tinyurl.com/32fdu3s
15 Sep
VOA_News VOA News
Survey Shows Obama Still Popular
in Europe http://bit.ly/c1MPKH
15 Sep
nytimesworld NYTimes World
Europeans Still Like Obama, but Fret
Over Foreign Policy Issues
http://nyti.ms/cFFsmJ
15 Sep
HuffPostWorld HuffPostWorld
Obama remains quite popular in
Europe – See the survey results
http://huff.to/cFvwlc
15 Sep
GlobalPost GlobalPost
Obama slipping, but not sliding, in
Europe’s eyes. http://ht.ly/2EJjp
15 Sep
german marshall fund
16
Transatlantic Trends: Immigration 2010
In 2010, GMF and its partners collected
data for the third year of the Transatlan-
tic Trends: Immigration survey, which
measures attitudes on immigration and
integration topics on both sides of the
Atlantic.
As many of the countries included in TTI
were still grappling with the aftermath of
the economic crisis in 2010, a primary
focus of TTI 2010 was the economy and its
effects on attitudes. Transatlantic Trends:
Immigration 2010 asked North Americans
and Europeans several questions related
to labor markets, their own economic situ-
ation, and their perception of their national
economies in order to gauge whether
attitudes about immigration issues have
changed as a result of economic anxiety.
Another highlight of the TTI 2010 survey
is a focus on integration issues. Given
the salience of the European debate, in
particular, the survey included questions
that allowed respondents to evaluate the
integration of various immigrant groups as
well as the children of immigrants.
Transatlantic Trends: Immigration is a
project of the German Marshall Fund of the
United States, the Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation, the Compagnia di San Paolo,
and the Barrow Cadbury Trust, with addi-
tional support from the Fundación BBVA.
It measures public opinion on immigration
and integration issues in the United States,
Canada, the United Kingdom, France,
Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Spain.
Key findings of the survey include:
Discontent with Immigration
Policies
Most countries showed disapproval with
government management of immigration.
Majorities in the United States (73 percent),
the U.K. (70 percent), Spain (61 percent),
France (58 percent), and the Netherlands
(54 percent) believed the government was
doing a poor job in immigration manage-
ment. Only Canada was split, with 48
percent offering positive views and 43
percent responding less favorably to
government policies.
Personal Economic Factors
Correlated with Fears
Among unemployed Europeans, 43
percent believed immigrants take jobs from
natives; the average in Europe was 35
percent. In the United States, 63 percent of
those whose financial situation worsened
in 2010 saw immigrants as a threat in the
job market jobs, more than the average of
56 percent.
Immigration Still Sways Votes
Compared to 2008, respondents answering
that a political party’s stance on immigration
would impact their vote was down slightly,
to 45 percent from 50 percent in 2008. In
the U.K., however, 63 percent said immi-
gration policy would affect their vote, and
67 percent of Americans said likewise, up
from 56 percent in 2008.
Immigrant Integration
Most in Europe held unfavorable views on
the state of immigrant integration. Spain
was the only country with a slight majority
(54 percent saying that immigrants are inte-
grating well. North Americans held a more
positive view, with 59 percent of Americans
and 65 percent of Canadians claiming that
immigrants are integrating well.
research
2010 annual report 17
gmf fellows program
Emiliano Alessandri
former Visiting
Fellow, Center on
the U.S. and Europe
(CUSE), Brookings
Institution; Associate
Fellow, Istituto Affari
Internazionali (IAI),
Rome
Gilles Andreani
former Director of the
Policy Planning Staff,
Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, France
Niels Annen
former Member,
German Bundestag
Autumn Bernstein
Director, Climate Plan
Lavea Brachman
(Cities In Transition
Fellow)
Director, Greater Ohio
Policy Center
Peter Chase
former U.S. Chamber
of Commerce senior
European representative
John Colm
Executive Director,
WIRE-Net
Pavol Demeš
former Director, GMF
Bratislava Office
Daniel Fata
Vice President, The
Cohen Group; former
U.S. Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Defense
for Europe and NATO
Policy
Joe Guinan
Senior Policy Analyst,
Environmental Working
Group; Advisor,
William & Flora Hewlett
Foundation’s Global
Development Program
Abby Hall
Policy Analyst, United
States Environmental
Protection Agency
Jennifer Hillman
Member, Appellate
Body, World Trade
Organization
Joerg Himmelreich
former Member, Policy
Planning Staff, German
Federal Foreign Office
William Inboden
Distinguished Scholar
at the Strauss Center
for International Security
and Law, Assistant
Professor at the LBJ
School of Public Affairs
at the University of
Texas-Austin
Jim Kolbe
former Member,
U.S. House of
Representatives,
representing the 8th
Congressional District
of Arizona
Milos Kovacevic
Member of the
Municipality Council,
Savski Venac, City of
Belgrade
Katrin Kuhlman
President, Trade, Aid,
and Security Coalition
James Kunder
former Acting
Administrator, U.S.
Agency for International
Development
Ian Lesser
former Vice President,
Pacific Council on
International Policy,
senior staff member of
the RAND Corporation,
and member of
Secretary of State
Warren Christopher’s
Policy Planning Staff,
U.S. Department of
State
Robert Liberatore
former Head of
Global External Affairs
and Public Policy,
DaimlerChrysler
Nigel Purvis
President, Climate
Advisers
Joseph Quinlan
Chief Market Strategist,
Bank of America Capital
Management
Ryo Sahashi
Associate Professor of
International Politics in
the Faculty of Law at
Kanagawa University
Tim Searchinger
former Co-Director,
Center for Conservation
Incentives,
Environmental Defense
Andrew Small
former Director, Foreign
Policy Centre, Beijing
Constanze
Stelzenmüller
former Defense and
International Security
Editor, DIE ZEIT
Bruce Stokes
International Economics
Columnist, National
Journal
Ryan Streeter
editor of
ConservativeHome.com
Kati Suominen
former Trade
Economist, Inter-
American Development
Bank
Daniel Twining
former Member of
Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice’s
Policy Planning Staff,
U.S. Department of
State
Peter Van Praagh
former Senior Director
of Foreign Policy and
Civil Society programs,
GMF
Joshua Walker
Post-Doctoral Fellow at
the Crown Center for
Middle Eastern Studies
at Brandeis University,
Research Fellow at
Harvard University’s
Belfer Center
Joseph R. Wood
former Deputy Assistant
to the U.S. Vice
President for National
Security Affairs
german marshall fund
18
Transatlantic Take Series 1
GMF’s Transatlantic Take series entered
its second year featuring regular op-ed
style pieces on the week’s most important
news and events. Each piece is written
by GMF staff or fellows from both sides of
the Atlantic and distributed by email. The
authors comment on current events from
a transatlantic perspective, in some cases
highlighting new issues that should be on
the transatlantic agenda. Every Transat-
lantic Take can also be found on the GMF
blog, where authors and readers comment
and continue the conversation. At the
conclusion of 2010, almost 80 Transat-
lantic Takes had been published featuring
stories ranging from the American midterm
elections and the conflict on the Korean
peninsula to Iran’s nuclear ambitions and
the economic crisis.
Climate Change and Security Paper Series
A series of papers commissioned by
GMF’s Climate & Energy Program
advanced understanding 2 of the
linkages between climate change and
national security and set out options for
transatlantic policy responses. The papers
addressed the intersection of climate and
security from several different angles.
Joshua W. Busby and colleagues at the
University of Texas analyzed the particular
vulnerabilities posed by climate change to
North Africa, with a focus on the region’s
significance to transatlantic partners.
E3G’s Nick Mabey argued that the security
community must be proactive in address-
ing climate change. Tobias Feakin and
Duncan Depledge of RUSI wrote of how
the transatlantic community can benefit
from a coordinated approach to climate
change. And Adelphi’s Dennis Taenzler and
Alexander Carius framed future conflicts
and opportunities arising from climate
change, with an eye to developing multilat-
eral adaptation strategies.
On Turkey, Ukraine, Wider Europe, and Asia series
GMF’s Foreign Policy & Civil Society
Program has developed several series of
policy briefs to explore issues in different
regions of the globe affecting the transat-
lantic relationship. The “On Ukraine” series,
for example, examined that country’s
politics in the run-up to the 2010 presiden-
tial elections. 3 The ongoing “On Turkey”
series continues to provide provocative
commentary on Turkey’s domestic and
international policies, ranging from the
selection of political party leaders to rela-
tions with Israel and Armenia. The “On
Wider Europe” series, as the name implies,
focuses on the expansion of the EU and
NATO, and relations with near neighbors
such as Belarus and Azerbaijan. The “On
Asia” series, launched in 2010, discusses
established and rising powers in the east,
from Japan to India, regarding global
economics and security.
research
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
how much do you know about Sochi,
Russia? What will #Olympics look like
surrounded by poverty and violence?
http://bit.ly/9BIgQR #van2010
28 Feb
2	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
GMF’s Climate & Energy Program
release new policy paper entitled
“Transforming Economies through
Green Investment:...
http://bit.ly/cRD0dX
5 Feb
3	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Elections this weekend in Ukraine.
Any predictions?
15 Jan 10
2010 annual report 19
Mediterranean Policy Papers
In parallel with the Mediterranean Strat-
egy Group, GMF has developed a wider
program of research on Southern Europe,
North Africa, the Levant, and strategic
questions affecting the region. These
include published studies from GMF’s
strategic partnership with the Institute for
International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, a grant
for analyses on the Mediterranean politi-
cal economy to Paralleli in Turin, 1 and
research commissioned directly from GMF
in Washington. Key themes for publica-
tions in 2010 have included maritime
security, Libya, and new players in the
Mediterranean.
GMF Senior Transatlantic Fellow Ian Lesser,
who leads GMF’s Mediterranean work, is
engaged in an active program of writing
and speaking on Mediterranean affairs,
and regularly briefs research findings
to policy audiences. In October 2010,
Emiliano Alessandri joined the staff as a
Transatlantic Fellow to extend the pro-
gram’s research and outreach capacity
on Mediterranean issues.
Harnessing Market-Based Solutions
to Food Security
In order to link its work on agricultural
and trade to the current debate on food
security, GMF initiated a multi-stakeholder
research and consultation process to
develop a trade strategy for the United
States that would harness market-based
solutions to food security. The recommen-
dations produced through this process
fed into a White Paper by former GMF
Resident Fellow Katrin Kuhlmann, which
outlines a detailed roadmap to identify
barriers to and opportunities for the expan-
sion of food markets in the developing
world. The recommendations are reflected
in the U.S. Administration’s official imple-
mentation documents for the Feed the
Future Initiative.
Accessing GMF’s publications through ScribD 2
GMF has revived its Scribd.com account
and posted around 300 documents on
the site, representing all of GMF’s major
publications, policy briefs, policy papers,
and conference paper series since 2004.
Scribd is a social networking site for the
sharing of publications. If you search for
GMF on www.scribd.com and
become a “follower,” you’ll receive notifica-
tion whenever a new publication is available.
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
GMF releases a new policy brief
series in partnership with Paralleli, a
Turin-based institute specializing in
the... http://bit.ly/57ebvm
7 Jan 10
2	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
We’re cranking up the old GMF Scribd
account. Follow us there! http://
www.scribd.com/gmfus http://fb.me/
H6TVojMG
12 Aug
german marshall fund
20
Marshall Memorial Fellowship
GMF’s flagship and longest running
program, the Marshall Memorial Fellowship
(MMF) is a professional development and
networking initiative that enables partici-
pants to delve into the inner workings of
American and European society through
group and individual briefings and experi-
ential learning opportunities with govern-
ment officials, think tank leaders, media,
and business representatives.
The MMF program in 2010 was made
possible in part through partnership with
the Kresge Foundation, the Stavros S.
Niarchos Foundation, and the Cleveland
Foundation, and by in-kind contributions
from the Council for the United States and
Italy, Fundación Rafael del Pino, Gemein-
nützige Hertie-Stiftung, and Patronat Cata-
lunya Món. In addition to these partners,
GMF would like to thank the transatlantic
network of city coordinators and selection
partners for their invaluable contributions
and dedication.
2010 American Marshall Memorial Fellows 1
Over the course of 2010, 48 emerging
American Marshall Memorial Fellows from
19 states and the District of Columbia
traveled to five European cities to explore
issues such as economic development,
immigration, and politics. Destinations
included Barcelona, Brussels, Freiburg,
Turin, Sarajevo, and Warsaw. Highlights
of the 2010 American Fellows’ programs
included lunch with the president of
Montenegro and his foreign affairs advisor;
participation in “Aftenshowet,” the Danish
version of “Good Morning America”; and a
walking tour through HafenCity to discuss
the reinvention of downtown Hamburg.
2010 European Marshall Memorial Fellows
GMF welcomed 55 emerging Euro-
pean leaders from 21 countries to travel
extensively throughout the United States
as Marshall Memorial Fellows, exploring
issues such as gun control, business,
religion, and culture. The fellows visited
five different cities and towns across the
United States, spending time in destina-
tions that included Billings, MT; Detroit, MI;
Durango, CO; Houston, TX; Montgomery,
AL; and New Orleans, LA. Fellows were
also welcomed into the homes of American
networking
A	 European Marshall Memorial fellows Vedran Horvat (Croatia) and
Alessia Lefébure (France) stayed with a host family in Bismarck, ND.
B	 Fall 2010 European fellows experience the New York subway on the
last day of their trip. L-R: Markus Biegel (Germany), Alfredo Ingelmo
(Spain), Sasha Kapadia (GMF staff), Katerina Economakou (Greece),
Christian Olufsen (Denmark), and Alessia Lefébure (France).
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
2010 AMMFs meet with government
officials and policymakers throughout
Europe http://fb.me/Cudvrzdp
8 Jul
B
A
Thomas
Rötting
Thomas
Rötting
2010 annual report 21
families to gain a better understanding of
daily life In the United States. Also in 2010,
to better mirror the recent growth of the
EU, GMF initiated a new selection process
allowing leaders in an additional 15 Euro-
pean countries to apply.
Marshall Memorial Fellowship Alumni
Since 1982, the MMF program has
created a vibrant transatlantic network of
more than 2,000 professionals, many of
whom continue to take on leadership roles
throughout the United States and Europe.
In 2010, MMF alumni of all generations
have answered the call to public service:
Kasim Reed (MMF 2000) became mayor
of Atlanta, Georgia; Viktor Orban (MMF
1992) was named prime minister of
Hungary; Laurent Wauquiez (MMF 2005)
began service as French minister for
European affairs; Gitte Lillelund Bech (MMF
2003) became the first woman to serve
as minister of defence in Denmark; Jean
Mendelson (MMF 1984) began service as
ambassador of France to Cuba, and Darko
Angelov (MMF 2009) is now ambassador
of the Republic of Macedonia to Hungary.
Marshall Forum 1
From September 16 – 19, 2010, GMF
and a North Carolina host committee of
MMF alums hosted the Marshall Forum
on Transatlantic Affairs in Raleigh-Durham,
North Carolina. The theme of the confer-
ence, the future of innovation, was woven
throughout the panel sessions and keynote
speeches, which covered a range of
topics including politics, science, educa-
tion, immigration, energy, and biotechnol-
ogy. Keynote speakers included Dr. Oliver
Smithies, professor at UNC and a Nobel
Prize winner; U.S. Representative David
Price (D-NC); Dr. Roberta Blackman-
Woods, a member of the U.K. parliament;
and Dr. Jim Johnson of the University of
North Carolina (UNC). Drawing upon the
richness of regional innovation, conference
highlights included a site visit to Hillside
New Tech High School, where the 55
participants learned about the innovative
teaching techniques used there, followed
by an al fresco dinner at a local organic
farm. The conference was made possible
through the dedication and hard work
of the local American Marshall Memo-
rial Fellowship alumni, in partnership with
the Kenan Institute, IBM, Cisco, Capitol
Broadcasting Company, SAS, and South
by North Strategies.
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 sanjay Sanjay Parekh
this is what I love about going to non-
tech conferences. VERY different than
the bubble we live in. #marshallforum
17 Sep
gmfus German Marshall Fund
In fascinating life story at
#marshallforum Nobel Laureate
covers everything from education
to scientific process to bioethics to
failure
18 Sep
gmfus German Marshall Fund
#marshallforum Raleigh officially
closes after a weekend of
unique experiences, educational
conversations, and fun times in
North Carolina
19 Sep
Roberta Blackman-Woods, English
member of Parliament, and Ian Murray,
Scottish member of Parliament, gave
the closing keynote at the 2010
Marshall Forum.
Emily
Robichaux
german marshall fund
22
Climate study tour
GMF led a study tour for U.S. policymakers to
learn about Europe’s experience of renewable
energy in Germany and Spain from September
4-11 with support from the Transatlantic Climate
Bridge. The study tour was designed to offer
U.S. officials first-hand insight into a range of
European policies and business strategies to
maintain a competitive edge in clean-energy
technologies. In Hamburg, the delegation saw
a city that had reinvented itself as a hub of
clean-energy production, home to companies
like REpower Systems AG (a manufacturer of
wind turbines) and LichtBlick (an innovative
electricity utility), whose senior management
they met. They visited the City Hall to hear about
the measures Hamburg has taken to win the title
of European Green Capital 2011. Their visit to
Bilbao, in the Basque Country in northern Spain,
provided another example of how a port city had
found new industrial life in the renewable energy
sector.
The study tour allowed the delegates to
understand how renewable energy — which
is often variable and intermittent depending on
the weather conditions — can be integrated
at a large scale into the electricity grid. During
the visit to Madrid’s Red Electrica, which is
responsible for the management of the Spanish
electrical grid, the delegates saw in real time
how electricity from wind and solar electricity is
balanced with more traditional coal- or gas-fired
power generation.
Finally, the study tour considered the longer-term
prospects for renewable energy. In Hamburg,
delegates participated in an expert roundtable
on the prospects for “Desertec,” a German-
led initiative to develop solar power in North
Africa for export to Europe. The roundtable also
featured discussion of a “SuperSmart Grid,” an
advanced, high-capacity power-distribution grid
that could allow the transmission of power from
Europe’s periphery to the population centers
across the continent. In Spain, delegates saw
part of this technology in action: a concentrated
solar power plant of 300MW installed capacity
that is being built near Seville. The project is
a commercial, functioning power plant that
provided a concrete example of what could
be done not just in Europe, via the Desertec
project, but also in the United States, which has
analogous geographical locations in southern
desert states like Arizona, Texas, and California.
A study tour participant takes in a real-time representation of Spain’s
electricity generation and needs.
Participants also visited a solar power
plant near Seville.
Thomas
Legge
Thomas
Legge
2010 annual report 23
Alliance of Civilizations International Fellowship
GMF coordinated the pilot program of
the Alliance of Civilizations International
Fellowship in March 2010. Modeled on the
Marshall Memorial Fellowship, this two-
week long exchange program provided
an opportunity for 24 emerging leaders
from North America, Europe, the Middle
East, and North Africa to explore media,
culture, politics, business, governmental
institutions, civil society, and religion in one
another’s regions. GMF operated the pilot
in partnership with the British Council; the
League of Arab States; the Islamic Educa-
tional, Scientific, and Cultural Organization;
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Qatar; and
the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations.
Transatlantic Cities Network
The Transatlantic Cities Network (TCN), the
signature project of GMF’s Comparative
Domestic Policy (CDP) program, provides
a sustained framework for the exchange
of information about innovative policies,
best practices, and local policy challenges
among a diverse network of policymak-
ers, practitioners, and civic leaders who
are well-positioned to put new ideas into
practice in their home cities. The TCN is
made possible through partnerships with
the Compagnia di San Paolo and the Bank
of America Foundation.
Transatlantic Cities Forum on
Waterfront Development
From May 20-23, 2010, GMF hosted
waterfront development experts from 22
TCN member cities at its Transatlantic
Cities Forum (TCF) on Waterfront Develop-
ment in Genoa, Italy. At this first annual
Transatlantic Cities Forum, delegates
engaged in a dialogue about professional
experiences, successes, and challenges,
identified key thematic issues that face
planners and practitioners working on
waterfront projects in cities on both sides
of the Atlantic, and shared best practices
and solutions for specific challenges.
Transatlantic Cities Network
Annual Meeting
In late September, CDP hosted the annual
meeting of its Transatlantic Cities Network
members in Essen, Germany. The theme
of this year’s meeting, “Turning Liabilities
Into Assets,” focused on the Ruhr Valley’s
economic and cultural transformation in
the post-industrial era, with workshops and
site visits structured around the region’s
exemplary brownfield redevelopment proj-
ects and status as the European Capital
of Culture 2010. In addition to discussing
urban policy challenges around this topic,
TCN members also
discussed the shape,
scope, and direction of
the network itself.
Transatlantic Cities Forum participants
visited Genoa’s waterfront.
Julianne
Stern
german marshall fund
24
APSA Congressional Fellowship
The American Political Science Association
(APSA) Congressional Fellowship is a high-
ly selective, non-partisan program devoted
to expanding public knowledge and aware-
ness of the U.S. Congress around the
world. Each year, GMF provides support
for two mid-career German professionals
to participate in the prestigious ten-month
fellowship. Fellows secure their own jobs
as legislative assistants in Congress by
reaching out directly to member offices and
committees. GMF’s Congressional Rela-
tions team offers support and guidance in
this process. Once they obtain a position,
APSA Fellows gain an insider’s view of
Capitol Hill and an intimate understanding
of the functioning of the federal govern-
ment as a whole. The program provides
participants an unparalleled experience of
the American political system that informs
their work at home in Germany. To date,
GMF has supported the participation of 50
German Fellows.
The 2009-10 fellows were Ulrike Hornung,
who worked in the office of Congress-
woman Linda Sánchez, and Sonja Regler,
who worked in the House Subcommittee
on Africa and Global Health.
Congressional Study Tour to Discuss Global
Economic Challenges
In July 2010, GMF organized a Congres-
sional staff study tour to London, Brus-
sels, and Berlin. The study tour focused
on the rising importance of the G20 as
a means to face global economic chal-
lenges, the state of financial reform on
both sides of the Atlantic, and the global
implications of the sovereign debt crisis
in Europe. The bipartisan group of nine
staffers had the opportunity to meet with
economic officials and representatives from
governments, central banks, and parlia-
ments, as well as the private and nonprofit
sectors. Through these meetings, GMF
aimed to foster greater understanding of
these complex issues and to provide for an
open exchange of policy ideas among staff
and their counterparts in Europe.
Peter R. Weitz Prize Awarded 1
On July 28, the German Marshall Fund
of the United States (GMF) awarded the
2010 Peter R. Weitz Journalism Prize for
excellence and originality in U.S. reporting
on Europe and the transatlantic relation-
ship to Sarah Wildman for her five-piece
series on the International Tracing Service
(ITS), the world’s largest Holocaust archive,
published in Slate magazine.
The award luncheon included a panel
discussion featuring Wildman and Paul
A. Shapiro, director of the Center for
Advanced Holocaust Studies at the
U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum
(USHMM). Mike Abramowitz, a non-
resident GMF fellow and director of the
Committee on Conscience at the USHMM,
moderated the discussion.
networking
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Today at GMF: Weitz Prize winner
Sarah Wildman receives her award
for best reporting on Europe....
http://fb.me/DlM1acHt
28 Jul
2010 annual report 25
Wildman opened the discussion by
describing her personal struggle to under-
stand the fate of a young German Jewish
woman within the larger context of the
field of Holocaust studies. She stressed
the importance of ITS’ work, explain-
ing that the archive provided “the only
type of happy ending possible by offering
closure…some idea of what happened
to the people you remember….to give
survivors and victims back their human-
ity, despite not having been able to save
[them], but to have been able to save [their]
words.”
The Weitz Prize was
established in 1999
in memory of Peter
R. Weitz, former
director of programs
at GMF, for his inter-
est in promoting
coverage of Europe-
an affairs by Ameri-
can journalists. While
GMF has in the past offered two awards
to distinguish junior reporters aged 35 and
under from senior reporters, Wildman was
the sole recipient of this year’s prize.
Manfred Wörner Seminar
Begun in 1982 as the Multiplikatoren Semi-
nar (Multiplier Seminar) and co-sponsored
by GMF and the Armed Forces Office of
the German Defense Ministry, the annual
Manfred Wörner Seminar brings together
30 young Americans and Germans to
examine German and European security
policy and to discuss U.S.–German and
U.S.–European security interests. The
Seminar serves to deepen understanding
between participants from both countries
and offers an excellent opportunity to
broaden professional networks.
The program takes place each year in
three German cities — Bonn, Cologne,
and Berlin — and in Brussels, Belgium,
and consists of meetings with experts on
security and defense in both the German–
American and European–American frame-
work. This year’s seminar was held from
April 30 to May 8, 2010.
Participants are drawn from a diverse
range of professional and educational
backgrounds. Seminar participants includ-
ed representatives from German Council
on Foreign Relations, the German Foreign
Office, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung,
the German Bundestag, and EADS on the
German side and representatives from the
Department of Defense, the Department
of State, the Department of the Treasury,
the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, Brookings Institution, the Council
on Foreign Relations, and CNN on the
American side.
The group’s program included briefings by
senior representatives of the German Minis-
try of Defense, the European Commission,
and the European Parliament. In addition,
participants met with Egon Ramms, Com-
mander of NATO’s Joint Forces Command
in Brunssum, and Hans Ulrich Klose, Mem-
ber of the German Bundestag and Deputy
Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
Sarah Wildman explains the process of
researching her Weitz award-winning
articles.
Ashley
VonClausburg
german marshall fund
26
Balkan Trust for Democracy
The Balkan Trust for Democracy (BTD), an
award-winning public-private partnership,
was established in 2003 by the German
Marshall Fund of the United States, the
U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID), and the Charles Stewart Mott
Foundation. BTD is structured to allow
both European and U.S. partners to join
the effort to strengthen transatlantic coop-
eration in the Balkans. Since its founding,
additional contributions from Compagnia
di San Paolo, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
of the Czech Republic, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of Denmark, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of Greece, Robert Bosch Founda-
tion, Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Royal
Netherlands Embassy in Belgrade, Swed-
ish International Development Cooperation
Agency, and Tipping Point Foundation
have made BTD a true transatlantic part-
nership.
In 2010, BTD awarded over $2.9 million in
112 grants to support democracy, good
governance, and Euroatlantic integration
throughout Southeastern Europe. In addi-
tion to grantmaking, the Balkan Trust for
Democracy continually works to accelerate
the region’s integration into Euroatlantic
structures and to raise the profile of the
Balkans. Together with GMF’s Washing-
ton headquarters and its other European
offices, BTD connects local actors with
European Union, American, and interna-
tional individuals and institutions in order to
build networks and consensus on Balkan
issues from a broader, multi-stakeholder
perspective.
For example, the Serbian Unity Congress
received BTD support to implement a proj-
ect to promote the rehabilitation of victims
of the previous regime and the restitution
of confiscated property in Serbia. This
increased public pressure on the govern-
ment to proceed with the restitution
process and to improve rehabilitation laws,
through the creation and submission of
policy papers to the Serbian government,
the active lobbying of the Ministry for Dias-
pora on these issues, and the coordination
of a forum for communication between civil
society and government.
The Youth Communication Center (YCC)
in Bosnia and Herzegovina received BTD
support to strengthen a network of second-
ary school student councils, providing
students with experience in decision-making
processes at school and with a mechanism
for participation in government. The network
of secondary schools connects more than
half of all of the secondary schools in Bosnia
and Herzegovina and coordinated advo-
cacy campaigns to raise public awareness
of youth issues, successfully reaching and
engaging more than 30,000 people.
grantmaking
B
A
Serbian
Unity
Congress
Youth
Communication
Center
2010 annual report 27
Black Sea Trust for Regional Cooperation
Since 2007, the Black Sea Trust for Region-
al Cooperation (BST) has awarded more
than 200 grants totaling over $6 million to
local and national NGOs, regional govern-
mental entities, community groups, policy
institutes, and other institutions in Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Moldova,
Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine.
Operating from Bucharest, Romania, BST
was founded by USAID, the Government
of Romania, the Charles Stewart Mott
Foundation, and the Ministry of Defence
of the Republic of Latvia. The Lynde and
Harry Bradley Foundation also contribute
to the activities of the Trust in the Black
Sea Region by supporting study tours in
the region.
BST promotes regional cooperation and
good governance in the wider Black Sea
region; accountable, transparent, and open
governments; strong, effective civic sectors;
and independent and professional media. In
2010, BST awarded 96 grants throughout
the region, totaling over $2.7 million, with
the majority of grants falling within the three
grantmaking priorities: enhancing regional
security, promoting pluralistic societies, and
facilitating regional dialogue.
Efforts supported by BST to promote
regional dialogue included the Black Sea
Young Reformers Fellowship (BSYRF),
launched in 2010 by the Institute for
Regional and International Studies (IRIS)
and the Munich-based Center for Applied
Policy Research (CAP), with financial
support from the Robert Bosch Stiftung,
and BST. In April 2010, in Varna, Bulgaria,
IRIS hosted the Fellowship’s inaugural
seminar, “Security, Development, and
Regional Cooperation in the Black Sea
Area.” As part of the program, the 19
fellows met again in Berlin, Germany, in
November. This project is an effort to
support reformist thinking and activities
across the Black Sea region through identi-
fying and encouraging like-minded, reform-
oriented, influential young policy-makers,
civil servants, and civil society activists at
national level from Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Bulgaria, Georgia, Moldova, Romania,
Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine.
A	 The Balkan Trust for Democracy (BTD) supported lobbying the Serbian Ministry for Diaspora on improving the
post-war restitution process.
B	 Another BTD project connects 160 secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina to coordinate youth
advocacy campaigns.
C	 The Black Sea Young Reformers Fellowship encourages young people to make positive change throughout
the region.
C
Mirela
Isic
german marshall fund
28
Trust for Civil Society in Central
and eastern Europe
The Trust for Civil Society in Central and
Eastern Europe (CEE) was launched in 2001
as a $75 million, ten-year sinking fund of the
Ford Foundation, the Charles Stewart Mott
Foundation, the Open Society Institute, the
Rockefeller Brothers Fund, and GMF. Addi-
tional donors include Atlantic Philanthropies
and the Pfizer Foundation. The Trust’s
grantmaking programs support civil society
institutions and projects in Bulgaria, Czech
Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania,
Slovakia, and Slovenia. To date, the Trust
has awarded nearly $55 million in grants to
organizations in the target countries. The
Trust is managed by Executive Director
Lidia Kolucka-Zuk and six staff members.
Distinguished advisory committees in each
country of the Trust’s operations assist with
the proposal review process.
Strategic Grantmaking
The Strategic Grantmaking Program fosters
policy research across the range of trans-
atlantic issues. GMF focuses on specific
issue areas each year and invites individual
proposals to be submitted. Recipients in
2010 included Italian Institute for Interna-
tional Affairs, Bruegel, National Democratic
Institute for International Affairs, and the
Latvian Transatlantic Organization.
Italian Institute for
International Affairs
The Italian Institute for International Affairs
(Istituto Affari Internazionali — IAI) is Italy’s
major research center in the fields of
international politics, security, and econom-
ics. The partnership focuses on southern
Europe, North Africa, and the Mediter-
ranean and leverages each institution’s
intellectual expertise, convening capabilities,
and networks in Washington and across
Europe. This effort focuses on an enhanced
program of research and analysis span-
ning key issues, such as new actors in the
Mediterranean, maritime security issues,
and emerging opportunities and challenges
for Euroatlantic cooperation.
Bruegel
Bruegel is a European economic policy
institute based in Brussels. The partner-
ship leverages each institution’s intellectual
expertise, convening capabilities, and
networks in Washington and in Europe.
Among the program areas covered in the
partnership are Globalization, Competi-
tiveness, and the Transatlantic Economy;
Transatlantic Cooperation in the Eastern
Partnership; and Climate Change. The
collaboration includes the development of
research products, organizing conferences
and seminars, publications for external
audiences, and programming for fellows,
staff, and other important visitors.
grantmaking
A	 Istituto Affari Internazionali
president Stefano Silvestri (left)
speaks at a GMF Mediterranean
Strategy Group event in Rome.
B	 Former Bolivian President, Jorge
Quiroga, discusses the role of the
G20 at an Embassy Series event.
B
A
Ashley
VonClausburg
Leonardo
Puccini
2010 annual report 29
Immigration Grantmaking
In May 2009, the GMF Immigration & Inte-
gration Program launched an annual, large-
scale grantmaking initiative, the Transatlan-
tic Study Teams. The grantmaking program
focuses on a select topic area and gathers
the leading experts on this topic to compile
existing data, engage in a dialogue with
policymakers, and promote open dialogue
to advance the policy debate.
In 2010, the Transatlantic Study Team
continued their research on the impact
of climate change on migration patterns.
1 Environmental deterioration, includ-
ing natural disasters, rising sea level, and
drought problems in agricultural production
could cause millions of people to leave
their homes in the coming decades. The
debate is currently left off of legislative
agendas due to the lack of knowledge
about the relationship between climate
change and migration. GMF’s study team
worked to fill this knowledge gap and bring
the topic to the attention of policymakers
and other stakeholders. The team consists
of members from three U.S.-based institu-
tions (Georgetown University, University of
California at Davis, University of San Fran-
cisco), three European based institutions
(Bonn International Center for Conversion,
Adelphi Research, Overseas Development
Institute), and two international institutions
(United Nations University, International
Organization for Migration) as well as poli-
cymakers and practitioners with relevant
experience.
Activities of the study team fell into four
areas: 1) preparation of background docu-
ments; 2) study team working meetings with
external experts; 3) site visits to affected
areas in Senegal and Mexico; and 4) policy
briefings and summary papers. Dissemi-
nation events with key policymakers and
stakeholders were held in Brussels and
Washington, DC. Members of the study
team also presented their findings at the
Global Forum on Migration and Develop-
ment and the United Nations Climate
Change Conference in Cancun, Mexico.
Economic Policy Program Grantmaking
Through its grantmaking, GMF’s Economic
Policy Program supports a wide range
of institutions and individuals working on
transatlantic economic, trade, agriculture,
and development issues. Over the course
of the last year, the program’s grantmaking
activities focused on monitoring several
major policy developments in the United
States and Europe, including transatlantic
efforts on aid reform, food security, and
developments in the G20. 2
For example, in order to expand the global
reach of GMF’s new G20 initiative and more
importantly raise questions related to the
coordination of development assistance
within the G20 Forum, the Economic Policy
Program provided a grant to the Club
de Madrid, a Spain-based organization
composed of 79 former democratic presi-
dents and prime ministers. The collabo-
ration culminated in a report titled “The
G20’s Role in the Post-Crisis World,” which
GMF co-sponsored and disseminated to
its transatlantic network as part of its G20
newsletter. The report encourages G20
member states to take a more determined
and creative stance on global free trade
and enhance national capacities to promote
sustainable development. Furthermore,
GMF’s initiative created a GMF-Club de
Madrid podcast series, in which various
former heads of state and government
were interviewed on G20 agenda items
discussed at the Seoul meeting including
the larger questions surrounding the future
role of the G20 in the international system
and its outreach to non-G20 members. The
collaboration also enabled GMF to host the
former Bolivian President, Jorge Quiroga,
in Washington, DC as part of its G20
Embassy series.
TWEETS FROM THE FIELD
1	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
GMF releases set of background
papers on Climate Change and
Migration: http://fb.me/C0Fr51l2
22 Jun
2	 gmfus German Marshall Fund
Is Globalization Back? G20 countries
meeting in Seoul can help rebuild
it in five ways – find out how now:
http://bit.ly/cwjAi6
26 Oct
The Transatlantic Study Team in Senegal.
unknown
german marshall fund
30
partnerships
Successful transatlantic relations depend on strong partnerships built over time, across
sectors, and between regions of the world. The German Marshall Fund has integrated
this model of partnership into its organizational strategy as a means to achieve greater
cooperation between North America, Europe, and other regions. This approach has led
to the inclusion in the transatlantic community and the GMF network of a broad range of
individuals — policymakers, journalists, nonprofit leaders, and business leaders — and
organizations cutting across the full spectrum of society.
GMF understands the crucial role that partnerships play in affecting and addressing the
concerns facing the transatlantic community. GMF’s goal is to address the fundamental
issues surrounding the North American-European relationship by drawing on an extensive
network of individuals and institutions on both sides of the Atlantic. Through partnering with
other organizations, GMF is able to ensure that its projects, programs, and activities bring
a unique perspective and provide innovative solutions to transatlantic problems rather than
recapitulate existing work. GMF actively seeks forward-looking solutions and partners to
develop a sustainable, effective transatlantic community.
GMF pursues a variety of partnership models, such as developing joint initiatives, undertak-
ing matching funding projects, providing grants for projects carried out by other institutions
and individuals, developing fully granted programs, and seeking in-kind contributions. GMF
is grateful to all of its partners for their contributions to furthering transatlantic cooperation.
A number of organizations have made financial contributions to GMF’s activities, including:
Air Canada
Airbus Americas, Inc.
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Bank of America Foundation
Barrow Cadbury Trust
Bayer
BNP Paribas Fortis
British Council
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation
Cleveland Foundation
Communitas Foundation
Compagnia di San Paolo
Daimler
Deloitte
Department of National Defence, Canada
Deutsche Post/DHL
Duke Energy
Egmont Institute
Eli Lilly and Company
Embassy of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands, Belgrade
EMD Serono
Enel SpA
European Cultural Foundation
2010 annual report 31
European Union Delegation to the United
States
Federal Authorities of Belgium
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian
Fundação Luso-Americana
Fundación BBVA
General Dynamics
German Federal Foreign Office
German Federal Ministry of Economics
and Technology
IBM
Irving Shipbuilding Inc.
Japan Foundation Center for Global
Partnership
Kenan Institute
KFW Bankengruppe
Koç Holding
Kresge Foundation
Legatum Institute
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation
Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Sweden
Ministry of Defence Republic of Latvia
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Belgium
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Romania
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech
Republic
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of
Netherlands
Munk School of Global Affairs
NATO
Office Cherifien des Phosphates Group
Riksbankens Jubileumsfond
Robert Bosch Stiftung
Rockefeller Brothers Fund
Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Norway
Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation
Surdna Foundation
Swedish Foundation for International
Cooperation in Research and Higher
Education	
Swedish International Development
Cooperation Agency
Tokyo Foundation
TurkishIndustrialists’andBusinessmen’s
Association
U.S. Agency for International
Development
U.S. Embassy to Germany
U.S. Mission to the European Union
Union of Chambers and Stock
Exchanges of Turkey
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation
ZEIT-Stiftung Ebelin und Gerd Bucerius
german marshall fund
32
Consolidated Balance Sheet
May 31, 2010
(With Comparative Totals for 2009)
Assets		 2010		 2009
Cash and Cash Equivalents	 $	15,907,184	 $	16,670,383
Investments		
169,322,474		173,535,754
Grants Receivable		 4,142,155		8,745,290
Property and Equipment, net		 16,762,972		17,176,474
Other Assets		 716,752		 302,536
	 $	206,851,537	 $	216,430,437
Liabilities and Net Assets
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses	 $	2,158,463	$	 1,995,649
Deferred revenue		 17,854,922		19,429,338
Grants payable		 951,831		1,998,642
		
20,965,216		23,423,629
Contingencies (Note 4)
Net Assets
Unrestricted		
Undesignated		 165,895,822		166,861,565
Board designated		 14,024,574		14,747,128
		
179,920,396		181,608,693
Temporarily restricted		 5,965,925		11,398,115
		
185,886,321		193,006,808
	 $	206,851,537	 $	216,430,437
financial
statements
2010 annual report 33
Consolidated Statement of Activities
Year Ended May 31, 2010
(With Comparative Totals for 2009)
	 2010					
	Temporarily
					
Unrestricted		
Restricted		 Total		 2009
Support and revenue:
	 Investment income (loss)	 $	 18,346,912	 $	 - 	 $	 18,346,912	 $	(23,040,557)
	 Non-federal grants and contributions		 1,179,885		 8,913,724		10,093,609		17,400,088
	 Federal grants		 3,121,735		 - 		 3,121,735		4,508,618
	Other			 37,552		 - 		 37,552		500,540
	 Net assets released from restrictions		 14,345,914		(14,345,914)		 - 		 -
			 Total support and revenue		
37,031,998		 (5,432,190)		31,599,808		(631,311)
Expenses:
	 Program services:
		 Internal projects expense		 17,028,438		 - 		 17,028,438		13,944,483
		Grant expense		8,566,190		 - 		 8,566,190		11,825,514
	 Management and general		 12,604,287		 - 		 12,604,287		13,593,858
	Fundraising		 521,380		 - 		 521,380		509,263
			 Total expenses		
38,720,295		 - 		 38,720,295		39,873,118
			 Change in net assets	 	(1,688,297)		 (5,432,190)		(7,120,487)		(40,504,429)
Net assets:
	Beginning		
181,608,693		 11,398,115		193,006,808		233,511,237
	 Ending		 $	179,920,396	 $	 5,965,925	 $	185,886,321	 $	193,006,808
german marshall fund
34
In June, GMF relaunched its website,
www.gmfus.org In addition to having
a modern look-and-feel, the website
organizes GMF’s work in a new way, by
breaking it down into user-friendly “Issues”
and “Regions” among other categorization.
In addition, there is a new emphasis on
multimedia content through the Virtual
Forum section, which highlights podcasts,
videos, and slideshows produced by GMF
staff. The new website makes it easier for
users to find relevant and fresh content,
publications, analysis, and multimedia.
Another emphasis of the new design is
to create more opportunities for visitors
to interact with GMF. The GMF blog
www.blog.gmfus.org continues to
spark interest and discussion around
current topics. GMF’s Facebook and
Twitter pages also continue to grow, with
increasing numbers of friends and followers,
respectively, getting frequent updates on the
organization’s activities and the chance to
interact directly with GMF. Those interested
in GMF’s many publications can also
subscribe for free by searching for German
Marshall Fund at www.scribd.com
gmf on
the web
2010 annual report 35
Guido Goldman, co-chair
Marc E. Leland, co-chair
Michael Ahearn
Robert Bennett
Margaret Carlson
Gregory Craig
Marc Grossman
John Harris
David Ignatius
Nike Irvin
Roman Martinez IV
Bill Owens
Richard Powers
Jim Quigley
Ann E. Rondeau
Paul Stafford
J. Robinson West
Robert Wexler
Suzanne Woolsey
R. Craig Kennedy,
president
board
german marshall fund
36
2010 annual report C
Washington - Berlin - Bratislava - Paris
Brussels - Belgrade - Ankara - Bucharest - Warsaw
www.gmfus.org
OFFICES
