Annual Report 2013
The German Marshall Fund of the United States (GMF) strengthens
transatlantic cooperation on regional, national, and global challenges and
opportunities in the spirit of the Marshall Plan.
GMF does this by supporting individuals and institutions working in the
transatlantic sphere, by convening leaders and members of the policy and
business communities, by contributing research and analysis on transatlantic
topics, and by providing exchange opportunities to foster renewed commitment
to the transatlantic relationship.
In addition, GMF supports a number of initiatives to strengthen democracies.
Founded in 1972 as a non-partisan, non-profit organization through a gift from
Germany as a permanent memorial to Marshall Plan assistance, GMF maintains
a strong presence on both sides of the Atlantic. In addition to its headquarters
inWashington, DC, GMF has offices in Berlin, Paris, Brussels, Belgrade,Ankara,
Bucharest,Warsaw, andTunis. GMF also has smaller representations in
Bratislava,Turin, and Stockholm.
GMF Board of Trustees
Marc Leland
Co-Chairman
J. RobinsonWest
Co-Chairman
Craig Kennedy
President
Michael Ahearn
Robert Bennett
Margaret Carlson
Gregory Craig
Marc Grossman
John Harris
David Ignatius
Roman Martinez
Meghan O’Sullivan
Richard Powers
Jim Quigley
Anne Rondeau
David M. Smick
Paul Stafford
Ellen O’KaneTauscher
RobertWexler
Guido Goldman
Founder and Chairman Emeritus
German Marshall Fund of the United States 1
From the President
T
his is my final message as president of the German Marshall Fund
of the United States. On March 31, I will be leaving this fine orga-
nization after more than 18 years as its chief executive.
Valedictory statements by tradition must be grateful and reflective. This
one is no exception. GMF has changed a great deal in my years with this
institution. We have developed new programs and new offices and, in
the process, GMF has grown significantly. While we are still modest in
size compared to many non-profits, we have the human and financial
resources to mount activities in pursuit of our long-standing mission of
deepening cooperation between the United States and Europe.
GMF’s expansion is the product of many people. Our trustees have
expected accountability and prudence from the staff but they have also
encouraged creativity and ambition from those of us who have had the
privilege of working with them. Their willingness to contribute their
time, intellectual capital, and vision to this institution has made an enor-
mous difference.
Over these many years, I have had the privilege to cooperate with many
extraordinary colleagues who have contributed their talent and hard
work to GMF’s programs. Every new initiative and venture at this institu-
tion was their product. Now, GMF has a richer and more diverse program
that addresses many of the most important challenges confronting the
transatlantic community, such as the rise of Asia and the emergence of
the South Atlantic as a source of energy and economic growth. I am very
grateful for all that they have done for GMF and for me.
I wish I could reflect back on these almost two decades and say that
the U.S.-European relationship is stronger and more effective than ever
before. But despite the best efforts of many individuals and institutions,
the transatlantic relationship has weakened over these years.
Americans and Europeans share many values and there is a deep
economic relationship between the two continents. However, coopera-
tion across the Atlantic has become increasingly difficult due to diver-
gent perspectives and expectations within the community as well as the
emergence of new partners and new challenges in Asia, Africa, and South
America.
Two wars have reduced our common resolve and our willingness to join
forces to address real tangible threats in the Middle East, North Africa,
and elsewhere. NATO, the premier institution of this community, has
been diminished because of war weariness and significantly reduced
defense spending among European allies. Disagreements over U.S.
methods for combating terrorism have also damaged the relationship. As
2 Annual Report 2013
a result of these and other developments, transatlantic cooperation has
become more complicated and more difficult in the past 18 years.
Could this trend be reversed? It can, of course, if there is the will and
vision to do so. The transatlantic community needs an infusion of strong
leadership and inspiring vision to recreate the sense of common mission
and purpose that was so evident after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
U.S. and European leaders were willing to put aside important differences
in the pursuit of promoting democracy, liberal values, and the integration
of Central and Eastern Europe into NATO and the European Union. As
we confront new problems in the Middle East, North Africa, and Asia, we
need a new group of farsighted leaders to emerge and renew that spirit.
GMF was created by a visionary leader, Willy Brandt, who wanted to
re-energize a transatlantic community that was divided by a war in
Asia and differences over how to manage the threat to Europe from the
USSR. As in 1972, GMF and other like-minded institutions have a role
in the process of renewing the U.S.-European cooperation by supporting
the next generation of transatlantic leaders and fostering new ideas for
common projects that energize Americans and Europeans. I may be
leaving GMF, but know that it is in the good hands of my friends on the
Board and the excellent staff to continue to pursue this goal and our core
mission with vigor and imagination in the years to come. Thank you.
Craig Kennedy
President
German Marshall Fund of the United States 3
656Reads of Most Read
2013 Publication on Website,
Understanding the
Structural Causes of
Turkish Protests
GMF 2013 Numbers
Number of Website Hits per Region of Origin
13,500
Twitter Followers
(35% growth)
25,000
Facebook Fans
(20% growth)
144Publications
85
Transatlantic
Takes
Circulated to
14,640
Subscribers
265Events
6,000+Event
Attendees
4,012Mentions of
#BrusselsForum
4,029Views of Most
Watched 2013 Video, Brussels
Forum Cybersecurity
Panel
4 Annual Report 2013
Dialogues for Change Workshop –Transatlantic
Lessons in Civic Participation
From January 13-16, 2013, the Urban and Regional Policy Program
hosted a workshop for 18 U.S. and German city leaders under the
Dialogues for Change initiative. The initiative is a joint undertaking with
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; the German
Federal Ministry for Transport, Building, and Urban Development; and
German Federal Institute for Research on Building Urban Affairs and
Spatial Development. Through the workshop, participants explored
diversity and inclusion in the engagement process; designing successful
engagement practices; the civic engagement toolkit; and increasing
infrastructure for ongoing civic engagement practices. The cities included
in the network are Austin, Flint, and Memphis in the United States and
Bottrop, Leipzig, and Ludwigsburg in Germany.
Transatlantic SecurityTask Force Planning Session
The GMF Transatlantic Security Task Force brings together a small group
of approximately 20 high-level U.S. and European security experts and
strategic thinkers to explore the security priorities for transatlantic coop-
eration in the years to come as well as to serve as a forum to stimulate
and organize a much-needed transatlantic security dialogue on looming
threats and possibilities of cooperation. This tri-annual transatlantic
discussion, which began with a planning session held on January 24-25 in
Paris, will have the capacity to influence the security policy environment
and create a provocative analytical architecture.
Congress Bundestag Forum StudyTour
In January 2013, a German-U.S. delegation of senior lawmakers partici-
pated in the second annual Congress-Bundestag Forum Study Tour. The
trip took place in Rabat and Casablanca, Morocco over four days. Two
members of the U.S. House of Representatives and two members of the
German Bundestag representing the Democratic, Republican, and Free
Democratic Parties met with senior Moroccan government officials in
various ministries, elected officials, NGO leaders, and German and U.S.
diplomats.
JANUARY
German Marshall Fund of the United States 5
FEBRUARY
German MinisterTalks on Europe after the Crisis
On February 13, GMF hosted a luncheon discussion in Washington,
DC, for more than 50 people with Ursula von der Leyen, the German
federal minister for labor and social affairs. Dr. von der Leyen addressed
the state of European labor markets and the continent’s economic future.
She said that one lesson of the 2008 crisis was Europe’s realization that its
social security system was a stabilizing factor and she stressed that while
Germany has a very robust labor market, it must tackle demographic
change, particularly an aging workforce, in order to be a leading global
actor.
FreeTrade Debated in Paris
On February 22, GMF’s Paris office and the American Chamber of
Commerce in France organized a private breakfast discussion for 30
economists, journalists, and corporate representatives with Constanze
Picking, senior policy advisor at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Euro-
pean Division and GMF non-resident fellow, and Bruce Stokes, director
of Pew Global Economic Attitudes and GMF non-resident fellow, on the
political debate around a U.S.-EU Free Trade Agreement, its obstacles,
and potential. Picking said that large and medium-size companies would
be the first to benefit from this agreement, while small companies will
experience more difficulties as they will face transatlantic competition.
Stokes said the transatlantic strategic community should work on the
promotion of this agreement, and not focus too much on obstacles such
as agricultural goods that constitute a minimal part of transatlantic trade.
YTN Berlin Speakers Discuss Challenges of New
Technology for Foreign Policy
On February 26, GMF’s Young Transatlantic Network in Berlin hosted
a discussion on “How to Rule the New Frontier? Impacts, Hopes, and
Challenges of Social Media for Foreign Policy” with Christian Mihr,
executive director with the German section of Reporters without Borders,
and Ben Scott, senior advisor to the Open Technology Institute at the
New America Foundation and visiting fellow at Stiftung Neue Verant-
wortung. Mihr pointed out that Western countries allow the development
and export of digital surveillance equipment to non-democratic countries
even though the use of that same technology is usually prohibited within
their own borders. Scott said the increasing role of social media as a
foreign policy tool has triggered the demand by governments for surveil-
lance software in non-democratic countries.
6 Annual Report 2013
MARCH
Trilateral Strategy Group DiscussesTurkey, Europe,
and U.S. Relations
The seventh meeting of the Trilateral Strategy Group, titled “Growth,
Innovation and the New Geo-Economics: European, Turkish, and Amer-
ican Perspectives” was held in İstanbul, from March 3- 5. The meeting
brought together 48 prominent participants from Turkey, the EU, and the
United States to discuss a range of issues including the emerging Euro-
pean order, the outlook for the European economy, the impact of tech-
nology, innovation and entrepreneurship, the role of human capital, and
the new geo-economics in the region. The Trilateral Strategy Group is
organized by GMF in partnership with the Turkish Industry and Busi-
ness Association (TÜSİAD), Koç Holding, and the Swedish Ministry of
Foreign Affairs.
Black SeaTrust for Regional Cooperation Marks
Fifth Anniversary
On March 7 and 8, to commemorate its fifth year, the Black Sea Trust for
Regional Cooperation held a conference entitled “From the Wider Black
Sea Region to the Eastern Neighborhood: Change of Name or Change of
Game” for more than 80 policymakers, opinion shapers, and civil society
and media representatives from the countries of the Black Sea region,
United States, and European Union. Topics included development of
civil society, the role of Islam and the media, energy security, transit and
economic opportunities, regional security, and geopolitical orientations
between the West and East. In 2007, GMF, the U.S. Agency for Interna-
tional Development, and the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation started
the initiative as a public-private partnership working in collaboration
with a range of donors to promote security, stability, and development in
the Black Sea region.
Brussels Forum Convenes
The eighth annual Brussels Forum
was held March 15-17. An annual
conference on transatlantic rela-
tions, Brussels Forum brought
together more than 400 heads of
state, officials from the EU institu-
tions and member states, U.S. offi-
cials, Congressional representatives,
Parliamentarians, and academics to discuss issues ranging from cyber-
security to trade agreement negotiations to climate change. Speakers
included U.S. Senator Chris Murphy, Estonian President Toomas Ilves,
and EU High Representative Catherine Ashton.
@GMFUS FASCINATING
#CYBERSECURITY PANEL
@#BRUSSELSFORUM
TODAY W. PRESIDENT OF
ESTONIA @ILVESTOOMAS
AND SWEDEN’S
FOREIGN MINISTER @
CARLBILDT
@NDOSSANTOSCNN
German Marshall Fund of the United States 7
APRIL
Migration’s Effect on Cities Discussed inTurin
GMF hosted the first International City Dialogue in Turin, Italy, from
April 11-13. The workshop titled “Shifting Economies, Shifting Migration
Patterns: Local Impacts and Policy Responses” brought together officials
from New York City, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Salt Lake City, Turin, Stuttgart,
Birmingham, and Bilbao, in addition to representatives from Welcoming
America, the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition,
and members of local Turin-based organizations to discuss immigration
integration in times of shifting migration patterns and decreasing and
limited budgets. A main discussion point was how immigrants can be
seen and involved as agents of economic revitalization of cities and urban
districts rather than as financial burdens.
Unleashing the
Potential of Global
Women’s Networks
Over 50 leaders representing
powerful women’s networks
gathered at GMF’s Washington, DC headquarters on April 19 to discuss
the challenges and opportunities global women’s networks face. “Global
Women’s Networks: Unleashing Potential” brought together female
leaders from the think tank, non-profit, government, and academic
sectors. They reflected on the achievements of networks in helping
women take leadership roles and identified key opportunities for women’s
networks to ensure that the gender gap at the highest levels of power is
addressed. GMF hosted this event as part of its transatlantic Leadership,
Diversity, and Inclusion Initiative.
International Forum on Border Security Held
Europe, the United States, and Israel face unprecedented challenges in
the area of border security, at both the political and operational level.
There is a growing consensus among allies to address both the internal
and external border challenges and opportunities facing them. Against
this backdrop, on April 22-23, GMF held a third workshop in the series
on “The International Forum on Border Security,” in Berlin. Partici-
pants looked at the role of NATO and ways in which the Alliance can
help tackle illicit trafficking, the Arab Spring and its effects on border
security in Europe and the United States, the inability of the government
bureaucracies to effectively deal with the so-called “second generation of
terrorists,” and airport risk management strategies.
GREAT DIALOGUE.THANK
YOU GMF, LET’S KEEP IT
GOING!
KELLIE HAWKINS
8 Annual Report 2013
MAY EnergyTransition Forum Workshops
On May 2 and 3, GMF’s Energy and Society program convened a series
of workshops for high-level business leaders, policymakers, and other
thought leaders from the United States and Europe as part of its ongoing
Energy Transition Forum initiative. The “Energy Infrastructure and
Power Pathways” workshop fostered conversation on changing dynamics
in the electric power sector. Participants examined in great detail the
social, technological, and financial trends driving grid modernization
and the adoption of new utility business models. The second work-
shop, “Rethinking the Energy System,” shed light on the complexities
of the global energy system through a dynamic simulation tool called
En-ROADS. Participants took part in a data-driven simulation exercise
that highlighted key interdependencies and potential unintended conse-
quences resulting from policy interventions. These workshops were used
to inform GMF’s annual Energy Transition Forum, which was held in
June 2013.
Transatlantic Academy’s “The Democratic
Disconnect” Released
The Transatlantic Academy released the collaborative report from its
2012-13 cohort of researchers in mid-May. Titled “The Democratic
Disconnect: Citizenship and Accountability in the Transatlantic Commu-
nity,” this report revisits the paradigms of liberalism and democracy, and
questions the ways in which liberal and democratic values are expressed
domestically and promoted. The core argument is that serious problems
co-exist with greater potential for re-energizing democracy across the
transatlantic area. “The Democratic Disconnect” is the fifth collaborative
report from the Academy, which focuses on a different theme each year.
NewTransatlantic Leadership Seminar Launched
On May 24, GMF launched its first fee-for-service Transatlantic Lead-
ership Seminar in the Balkans. The program took a group of 14 leaders
from the United States and Europe on an expert-guided study tour that
examined why certain regions rebound relatively quickly from the trials
of authoritarian politics, failures of planned economies, divisions of
ethnic and religious strife, and damage of international isolation and
sanctions. The group visited three successor states of former Yugoslavia
– Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and Serbia – and met with over 40
leaders from politics, business, and civil society to discuss key leader-
ship lessons in reconciliation, international crisis management, global
competitiveness, nation and state building, and mass movement mobili-
zation, among other themes and topics.
German Marshall Fund of the United States 9
JUNE
Lugar, Kerry attend Launch ofThe Richard G. Lugar
Institute for Diplomacy and Congress
GMF launched the Richard G. Lugar Institute for Diplomacy and
Congress on June 19 with a reception in the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations
Committee Room. The Lugar Diplomacy Institute will work to change
the way the United States Congress relates to the international commu-
nity by improving communication and understanding between the
Washington diplomatic corps and Congress. Senator Lugar was joined by
founding country members of the Lugar Diplomacy Institute — Ambas-
sador Srdjan Darmanovic of Montenegro, Ambassador Rachad Bouhlal
of Morocco, and founding partner Wolfgang Pordzik of DHL — along
with senators, members of the House of Representatives, and U.S. Secre-
tary of State John Kerry.
BalkanTrust for Democracy MarksTenth Anniversary
In June of 2003, GMF, the U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment, and the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation announced a new
$27 million, ten-year initiative to support good governance in South-
eastern Europe called the Balkan Trust for Democracy (BTD). In the
ten years since, BTD has awarded nearly $30 million through 1,101
grants to more than 600 civil society organizations. BTD makes grants
to deepen dialogue between citizens and elected leaders, improve
public access to information about the performance and actions of
government, and strengthen citizen participation in the democratic
process. In 2013, the Mott Foundation announced a second seven-
year commitment to continuing BTD’s work.
Twelfth Stockholm China Forum Held
The 12th
Stockholm China Forum took place on June 28-29 in partner-
ship with the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Set on the historic
Saltsjobaden waterfront in Sweden, the forum included senior members
of the U.S., EU and Chinese policy, business, and media community and
discussions on strategic issues affecting China’s external relations and
stability in the Asia-Pacific; the U.S. pivot to Asia, Chinese reform, and
China-Japan relations were among the topics discussed.
10 Annual Report 2013
JULY
WexlerTalks with Europeans on U.S.Views
of the Middle East
Even as the United States reduces its military role in Iraq and Afghani-
stan, the Middle East remains a strategic priority in U.S. foreign policy.
On July 9, GMF’s Brussels office hosted Robert Wexler, president of the S.
Daniel Abraham Center for Middle East Peace, for an energetic discus-
sion on “A U.S. Perspective on the Middle East.” Wexler previously served
in the U.S. House of Representatives for seven terms. In his remarks,
Wexler emphasized the need for transatlantic cooperation in order to
craft effective policies that benefit the Middle East and the international
community. He also highlighted the issues in the region that require
action from the U.S. and that offer the greatest likelihood of success,
including Iraq, Afghanistan, and Iran.
New Perspectives on the Asia-Pacific:
A Paper Series Launch
On July 11, GMF released a new paper series authored by alumni of the
2013 Young Strategists Forum (YSF), a leadership development program
held in partnership with the Sasakawa Peace Foundation (SPF). To mark
the release, GMF and SPF hosted a luncheon and roundtable discussion
with 30 members from the local foreign policy community, including YSF
alumni from the past two years. The four papers in the series discussed
the relationship between the United States and Japan; the European
Union, United States, and India; Indonesia “middle power diplomacy,” and
EU strategy in Asia.
First Euro-Atlantic Summer Academy Held in Warsaw
Transitioning to democracy and a market economy requires popular
support and political will. Building political and civil societies in
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, and Ukraine should be
accompanied by democratization, the creation of new state institutions,
and the ability to deal with social and economic problems. It is with
those issues in mind that the Warsaw Euro-Atlantic Summer Academy
(WEASA) was launched with a two-week educational program beginning
July 14. Designed for policy analysts and experts from the Eastern Part-
nership states eager to develop their international network of contacts
and expertise, WEASA will be an annual, long-term program dedicated
to assisting various groups of society in the process of democratization
and transformation. The 44 participants attended more than 40 lectures
and workshops, as well as two days of study visits to central and local
institutions.
German Marshall Fund of the United States 11
AUGUST
Marshall Memorial
Fellows
Forty-nine U.S. and 47 European
emerging leaders participated in
the Marshall Memorial Fellowship
during 2013. Over the course of
24 days, fellows traveled in groups
of 15-20 participants to 5 cities in
spring, summer, and fall cohorts. Fellows explored the other side of the
Atlantic and developed an appreciation of each other’s politics, busi-
nesses, innovations, and cultures. MMF Alumni Leadership Projects
have been awarded to fellows in eight sites, supporting projects such as
“Healthcare and Innovation in Europe & the USA” in Chicago in May
2014, “25 Years – Back and Ahead: Changes, Challenges, Chances” in
Warsaw in June 2014, and “The Metropolitan Revolution: Barcelona
Cities and the XXI Century Agenda” in Barcelona in summer 2014.
Beyond the Revolution:The Long Struggle for Reform
inTunisia
On August 1, GMF’s Washington headquarters hosted Habib Kazdaghli,
a Tunisian activist and professor of history and dean of the University
of Manouba. Dr. Kazdaghli painted a picture of the diverse society in
Tunisia. He said there was a shared vision for Tunisia moving forward
during the January 2011 protests among all parties involved in order
to leave the authoritarian days of Ben Ali behind and to create a more
representative government. The need for cooperation superseded
disagreements among the protesters and various opinions were respected.
However, a little more than two years later, this is no longer the case.
How Privacy & National Security Impact
International Commerce in the Digital Age
In one of his last speeches as a Department of Commerce offi-
cial, Cameron F. Kerry, General Counsel of the U.S. Department of
Commerce, spoke at GMF’s Washington office on August 28 to the need
to ensure a baseline level of protection in digital commerce for users in
the United States and abroad, while recognizing the number of effective
digital consumer protection policies already in practice. Kerry high-
lighted the importance of implementing measures that would protect the
flow of digital commerce and spur innovation, as well as create economic
development and growth. Much of the question and answer session of the
event focused on concerns regarding U.S. government practices and the
criticisms received from abroad.
@GMFUS GAVE ME A LIFE-
LONG INTERNATIONAL
FAMILY OF REALLY
INTELLIGENT PEOPLE
WHO LOVE TO TRAVEL.
SO GRATEFUL.
@SUSANNADW
12 Annual Report 2013
SEPTEMBER
TransatlanticTrends 2013
Released
The 11th
Transatlantic Trends was
released on September 18. The
annual survey of U.S. and Euro-
pean public opinion asked residents in 13 countries how they felt about
everything from security to the economy to immigration. Seventy-two
percent of Europeans and 62 percent of Americans polled as well as 72
percent of Turkish respondents do not want their governments to step
into the conflict in Syria. Transatlantic Trends 2013 is conducted by GMF
and the Compagnia di San Paolo, with additional support from various
other foundations.
Hydrocarbons and Sustainability in Cyprus and the
Eastern Mediterranean Region
GMF’s ongoing Eastern Mediterranean Energy Project and the University
of Nicosia hosted a workshop on “Hydrocarbons and Sustainability in
Cyprus and the Eastern Mediterranean Region” in Nicosia, Cyprus, on
September 24-25. The workshop was opened by the ministers of energy
from Cyprus and Greece. More than 60 representatives from major
energy corporations, law firms, universities, think-tanks, environmental
NGOs, and political leaders from Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Turkey, the
European Union, and the United States discussed the role of hydrocar-
bons in sustainable economic development, how to ensure environmental
protection in the Eastern Mediterranean region, and how to reduce
security risks related to hydrocarbon exploration and production. For
this occasion, three new papers were released: “Natural Gas in Cyprus
Choosing the Right Option,” “Managing Newfound Hydrocarbon Wealth:
Macroeconomic Policy Challenges in the Eastern Mediterranean,” and
“Natural Gas Export Options for Israel and Cyprus.”
USTR Froman DiscussesTransatlanticTrade
Agreement at GMF’s Brussels Office
U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman gave his first major address
on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) at GMF
in Brussels on September 30. He indicated that trade and investment
between the United States and the European Union far exceed any other
bilateral relationship with $2.6 billion worth of goods flowing between
the two sides each day. At a time when U.S. and European governments
are trying to stimulate growth and job creation, inefficiencies in regu-
lation and standards are not something either economy can afford, said
Froman. He stressed three points that will be central to the TTIP negotia-
tions: 1) transparency; 2) participation; and 3) accountability.
@GMFUS CONGRATULA-
TIONS!VERY INTER-
ESTING JOB. #TTRENDS13
@FRANCOFRATTINI
German Marshall Fund of the United States 13
OCTOBER
GMF Hosts Strong Cities, Strong Communities
Bootcamp in Memphis,TN
On October 21-22, the Urban and Regional Policy Program held the
second in a series of Strong Cities, Strong Communities Bootcamps in
Memphis, Tennessee. This workshop focused on best practices in using
data to improve local government performance. GMF, in collabora-
tion with the White House Strong Cities, Strong Communities (SC2)
Initiative, is responsible for implementing the SC2 Fellowship program.
This program placed 17 professionals in two-year positions in seven
pilot cities: Chester, Cleveland, Detroit, Fresno (pictured), Memphis,
Youngstown, and New Orleans. The Bootcamp sessions provide addi-
tional training opportunities for a broad range of city and civic leaders.
Atlantic Dialogues Convenes
The Atlantic Dialogues was held
October 25-27 in Rabat, Morocco.
Part of GMF’s Wider Atlantic
program and organized in partner-
ship with the OCP Foundation and
OCP Policy Center of Morocco,
the Atlantic Dialogues brought
together around 350 high-level
public- and private-sector leaders
from around the Atlantic Basin for
three days of open, informal discussion on cross-regional issues ranging
from security to economics, migration to energy. Participants from North
and South America, Africa, Europe, and Asia included senior officials,
business leaders, opinion shapers, and the media.
GMF Hosts Military Diversity Conference
with International Military Personnel
On October 29-30, GMF hosted “Mission Critical: Diversity and Secu-
rity” to discuss opportunities to increase inclusion in militaries, including
the world’s largest employer, the U.S. military. Acting Under Secretary of
Defense for Personnel and Readiness Honorable Jessica L. Wright, along
with U.S. Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman Elijah Cummings spoke
at the gathering on Capitol Hill. One hundred U.S. and European policy-
makers, thought leaders, and military practitioners addressed the impact
of demographic change, and advances in gender equity on militaries. This
discussion was designed to strengthen the position of diversity and inclu-
sion on the national security agenda of NATO partners, create a transat-
lantic community for sharing military diversity expertise, and highlight
the corporate role in veteran employment.
CAN’T FIND WORDS TO
THANK THE @GMFUS,
OCP FOUNDATION AND
OCP POLICY CENTER
FOR SUCH AN AMAZING
OPPORTUNITY. #ATLAN-
TICDIALOGUES
@CAROABRU
14 Annual Report 2013
NOVEMBER
Energy Options for the Baltic States
As part of the Central and Eastern European Energy Security Forum,
GMF hosted a workshop in Vilnius, Lithuania, on November 4 titled
“Energy Options for the Baltic States: Shaping their Energy Policy to
Strengthen Regional and EU Energy Security.” The event was the third
in a series of workshops that link Central and Eastern European energy
security to other regional, European, and transatlantic priorities. Energy
experts and political elites, including Lithuanian Minister of Energy
Jaroslav Neverovič and Latvian Minister for Economics Daniels Pavļuts,
debated the Baltic States’ efforts to meet EU energy policy objectives,
including completing the internal energy market, diversifying energy
sources, and increasing the share of renewables in their energy mix.
IndiaTrilateral Forum 7 Held
Mumbai, India, was the site of the seventh India Trilateral Forum, an
ongoing dialogue between European, U.S., and Indian policymakers and
commentators on shared interests and common challenges. Participants
at the November 8-9 event included officials from the governments of the
United States, India, Sweden, France, and the European External Action
Service, as well as business leaders, media commentators, and academic
experts from the United States, Europe, and India. Sessions focused on
India’s 2014 national elections, India’s economic and industrialization
prospects, trade negotiations, democratic growth prospects in India and
the West, India’s “Look East” Policy and the strategic balance in Asia, the
future of Afghanistan after 2014, and regional integration in South Asia. 
Eighth Mediterranean
Strategy Group in Genoa
The eighth Mediterranean Strategy
Group convened in Genoa on
November 21-22 for govern-
ment officials, thought leaders,
academics, and representatives
from multilateral organizations
from the United States, Europe, the
Middle East and North Africa, and
the Gulf. They discussed Mediter-
ranean security; potential new conflicts in the region; terrorism, political
violence, and proxy wars; separatism and sectarianism; ways to address
the spill-over effects of the violence in the Sahel; Turkey’s evolving role;
and what the decline of U.S. military power projection and the on-going
financial crisis in Europe mean for the regional balance of power.
AT THE @GMFUS EVENT
ON #GMFMEDSTRAT @
KAN303’S QUESTION ON
THE COMPATIBILITY
BETWEEN GEOPOLITICS
AND DEMOCRACY
RECEIVES GREAT
INTEREST
@SABANKARDAS
German Marshall Fund of the United States 15
DECEMBER
MENA Partnership Online Platform Launched
The MENA Partnership for Democracy & Development (MPDD)
launched its online platform (www.menapartnership.org) in December
2013. Since the launch, more than 150 NGOs and service providers from
the Middle East and North Africa (mostly Tunisia, Egypt, and Libya),
Europe, and North America have registered with what is essentially a
match-making database. The platform pairs civil society organizations
with profit and non-profit firms, experts, and practitioners in the areas
of media, communications, entrepreneurship, fundraising, campaigning,
constitutional reform, rule of law, human rights and civil liberties, and
women’s empowerment. MPDD expects that its goal of registering 200
entities by the end of February 2014 will be exceeded.
German Leadership Examined
On December 4, 2013, the GMF Warsaw Office organized a panel discus-
sion on “German Leadership Examined,” based on the recently launched
GMF-Stiftung Wissenschaft und Politik (German Institute for Inter-
national and Security Affairs) report, New Power, New Responsibility:
Elements of a German Foreign and Security Policy for a Changing World.
The report was based on a series of workshops and conferences where 51
experts on foreign and security policy from the Bundestag, government,
academia, business, foundations, think tanks, media, and non-govern-
mental organizations discussed key future challenges for German foreign
and security policy. Report author Dr. Constanze Stelzenmüller, senior
transatlantic fellow at GMF said the key message is that Germany’s exis-
tential dependence on globalization gives it an overwhelming strategic
interest — and responsibility — in preserving, protecting, and adapting
the free, collaborative and peaceful international order that makes global-
ization possible.
Exit Venus: Europe Needs to be Stronger
about Defense
The final paper by one of the three 2013 Asmus Policy Entrepreneurs
Fellows was published on December 10. In “ExitVenus: Europe Needs
to be Stronger about Defense,” Merle Maigre analyzed how the chal-
lenges that Europe faces affects the transatlantic security relationship and
recommended ways to maintain support for the transatlantic alliance in
the United States. The fellowship is in honor of Ronald D. Asmus, GMF
Brussels office executive director and director of strategic planning, who
dedicated his life to the principles of freedom before passing away on
April 30, 2011.
16 Annual Report 2013
Support
S
uccessful transatlantic relations depend on strong partnerships
built over time, across different sectors, and between regions of the
world. GMF understands the crucial role that partnerships play
in affecting and addressing global concerns. By partnering with other
organizations, GMF is able to ensure that its projects, programs, and
activities bring a unique perspective and provide innovative solutions to
transatlantic problems.
GMF is deeply grateful to all of its partners for their contributions to
furthering transatlantic cooperation. Below is a list of organizations and
individuals that financially supported GMF during 2013.
Government
Auswärtiges Amt - German Federal
Foreign Office
Bilbao International – Bilbao City
Council
British Council
City of Cleveland
City of Memphis
City of New Orleans
City of Youngstown
Department of Foreign Affairs of
Morocco
Embassy of the Gabonese Republic
European Union Commission
European Investment Bank
European Union Delegation to the
United States
Federal Authorities of Belgium
Federal Authorities of Germany
Federal Ministry of Transport,
Building and Urban Development of
Germany
Federal Ministry of Defense of
Germany
Government of Montenegro
Ministry of Defense of the Republic
of Latvia
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Belgium
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Bulgaria
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Lithuania
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Poland
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Slovakia
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the
State of the Netherlands
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sweden
NATO Public Diplomacy Division
Parliament of the Brussels Capital
Region
Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Norway
Swedish International Development
Cooperation Agency
Taipei Economic and Cultural
Representative Office
United Kingdom Foreign &
Commonwealth Office
U.S. Agency for International
Development
U.S. Department of Defense
U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development
U.S. Department of State
Corporate
Airbus Americas, Inc.
Audi AG
Bayer
BP
Chevron
Daimler AG
Deloitte
Deutsche Post/DHL
Downtown Fresno Partnership
EADS
Eli Lilly & Company
EMD Serono
Enel S.p.A
EP Global Energy
Facebook
Ford Motor Company
Google
IBM Corporation
JP Morgan Chase & Co
Lockheed Martin
German Marshall Fund of the United States 17
New York Stock Exchange Euronext
Noble Energy
NWI Management LP
Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America
Raytheon Company
Riga International Airport
Solvay SA
Total
Western Union Bank
Foundations
American Council of Learned
Societies
American Institute of Architects
American Israel Education
Foundation
ASAN Institute for Policy Studies
Aurea Foundation
Bank of America Foundation
Barrow Cadbury Trust
Carnegie Foundation
Center for a New American Security
Centre for European Studies
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation
Cleveland Foundation
Communitas Foundation
Compagnia di San Paolo
European Cultural Foundation
European Liberal Forum
Fritz Thyssen Stiftung für
Wissenschaftsförderung
Foundation for European Progressive
Studies
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian
Fundação Luso-Americana
Fundação BBVA
GE Foundation
Hungarian Initiatives Foundation
International Research & Exchanges
Board
Japan Foundation Center for Global
Partnership
Joachim Herz Stiftung
Kresge Foundation
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation
Midtown Detroit, Inc.
Mistra
Moroccan American Cultural Center
OCP Foundation
Robert Bosch Stiftung
San Jose State University Foundation
Sasakawa Peace Foundation
Secure World Foundation
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc.
Surdna Foundation
Tokyo Foundation
Turkish Business and Industry
Association
Universita degli Studi di Napoli
L’Orientale
Widener University
ZEIT – Stiftung Ebelin und Gerd
Bucerius
Individual Giving
As of January 15, 2014
Annual gifts from individuals are
vital to fulfilling GMF’s mission
of strengthening transatlantic
relationships. Members of GMF
are bound by a common interest in
transatlantic cooperation and are
committed to the value of networking
among contemporaries within the
global context. For more information,
please visit www.gmfus.org/support.
Marshall Leadership Giving Circle
($2,500+)
Anonymous
Michael S. Brown
Joyce Chang
Kevin E. Cottrell
Craig Kennedy & Karen Guberman
Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff
Marc E. Leland
Don Lothrop
Frank E. Loy
Roman Martinez
Maren Otto
Richard Powers
James Quigley
Paul K. Stafford
Membership (up to $2,500)
Anonymous
Dimitar Abadjiev
Iñigo Arzac
Vaughnetta J. Barton
John K. Bauman
Mark J. Beunderman
Angelo A. Caravano
Carrie L. Carroll
Sewell Chan
Luke Clippinger
Jeremy Cole
Johannes Dienemann
Laura Dittel
Sarah R. Dodd
Tamarah Duperval-Brownlee
Marian W. Edelman
Almut D. Engelien
Ryan J. Evans
Mary B. Gallivan
Jason A. Gelender
Chandak Ghosh
Linda Griego
Colleen L. Haggerty
Christopher J. Hansen
Hilliard Hardman
Richard C. Henn
Joanna Hurlburt
Nike Irvin, in honor of Peter Kezirian
Vatsala R. Kapur Pathy
Randall Kempner
Ellen Kim
Mara Kimmel
Scott L. Klug
Gideon Kracov
Thomas W. Kuehnelt
Laura Lewis Marchino
Robert G. Livingston
Timothy D. Male
Michael S. Matthiessen
Bryan H. Montgomery
Kevin W. Murphy
Patrick H. Murray
Lone Neerhøj
Leonard M. Nelson
John Newhouse
Rebecca Ore
John A. Quinterno
Kauser S. Razvi
Chad A. Readler
Shyam Reddy
William K. Reilly
Spencer G. Rhodes
William P. Roe
Jason Rohloff
Kim Savit
Zoltán Simon
Adam R. Snyder
Gabriel Speyer
Fritz Stern
Claude E. Teague
Christian Thiel
Diane Tran
Cam Ward
Wayne W. Whalen
Lorna Wisham
Joanna B. Young
18 Annual Report 2013
Assets		 2013	 2012
Cash and cash equivalents		
		Unrestricted	 $ 7,324,281	 $ 5,895,715
		Restricted	 3,603,166	5,956,620
Investments	 149,857,449	156,604,684
Grants receivable	 15,204,950	8,824,636
Property and equipment, net	 22,476,964	22,658,877
Other assets	 564,455 	 507,914
Bond issuance cost	228,538	
244,769
				 $ 199,259,803	 $ 200,693,215
		
Liabilities and Net Assets		
Liabilities		
		
Accounts payable and accrued expenses	 $ 2,664,604 	 $ 4,053,312
		Deferred revenue	 8,668,643	12,060,621
		Grants payable	 98,946	1,109,719
		
Bonds payable	12,000,000	
12,000,000
				 $ 23,432,193	 $ 29,223,652
		
		Net Assets		
		Unrestricted		
			
Undesignated	 148,240,534	152,434,025
			Board designated	11,935,788	
12,548,369
				 160,176,322	164,982,394
		
Temporarily restricted	15,651,288	
6,487,169
				 175,827,610	 171,469,563
				 $ 199,259,803	 $ 200,693,215
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Year ended May 31, 2013
(with comparative totals for 2012)
Financial Statement
German Marshall Fund of the United States 19
	2013	
		 		Temporarily		
		 Unrestricted		 Restricted	 Total	 2012
Support and revenue
		
Investment (loss) income	 $ 12,116,515	 $ -	 $ 12,116,515 	 $ (4,847,024)	
		
Non-federal grants and contributions	 464,281	24,739,266	25,203,547	15,594,216	
		Federal grants	 4,152,682	 -	 4,152,682	3,056,097	
		Other		 167,020	 -	 167,020	63,803	
		
Net assets released from restrictions	 15,575,147	 (15,575,147)	 -	-
Total support and revenue	 32,475,645	 9,164,119	 41,639,764	13,867,092
Expenses:
		Program services
			
Internal projects expense	 20,983,728	 -	20,983,728	19,436,294
			
Grant expense	 6,330,550	 -	6,330,550	6,413,746
		Support services
			
Management and general	 9,331,124	 -	9,331,124	11,538,295
			
Fundraising	 636,315	 -	636,315	584,390
Total expenses	 37,281,717	 -	37,281,717 	37,972,725
Change in net assets	 (4,806,072)	9,164,119	4,358,047	(24,105,633)
Net assets				
		Beginning	 164,982,394	 6,487,169	171,469,563	195,575,196
		Ending		 $ 160,176,322 	 $ 15,651,288	 $ 175,827,610	 $ 171,469,563
Consolidated Statement of Activities
Year ended May 31, 2013
(with comparative totals for 2012)
20 Annual Report 2013
T
here are many ways to connect with GMF online. www.gmfus.org
contains all of our videos, publications, podcasts with experts,
event photos, and program descriptions. Check out blog.gmfus.
org to read what our experts are saying on the transatlantic issues of the
day and offer your own opinions.
GMF is also active on social networks. Like us on www.facebook.com/
gmfus and follow us on www.twitter.com/gmfus to learn about new
releases and interact with others interested in transatlantic issues.
More than 700 of our publications are available on www.scribd.com/
gmfus, the social networking site for documents. Become a “follower” to
receive notifications when a new publication is available and be able to
recommend it to others. Another option is to search on www.amazon.
com for over 400 of GMF’s newer publications formatted for the Kindle
e-reader, or www.itunes.com for publications formatted for iPads. Search
for German Marshall Fund for a full list of available titles. Both Kindle-
and iPad-formatted publications are also available on www.gmfus.org.
And don’t forget to look for GMF’s photos on www.flickr.com/gmfus,
podcasts on www.itunes.com, and videos on www.youtube.com.
Connect with GMF
O F F I C E S
Washington • Berlin • Paris • Brussels
Belgrade • Ankara • Bucharest • Warsaw • Tunis
www.gmfus.org
